Act II


Scene 1

(Evan seems to have been awake for a while but we're not sure what he's been doing. He walks over to the bed where Beth is sleeping and sits down. He stares at her perhaps a little more intensely than what is considered acceptable. She begins to stir and wake up.)

BETH: Hmmm. (Blinks some and looks around. A little nervous when she realizes he's there.) Hi. 

EVAN: Hey. 

BETH: What time is it?  

EVAN: Nine-thirty. We don't get enough sun through these windows.

BETH: Have you been up for a while?

EVAN: No. Not long.

BETH: Oh good. Did you sleep okay? (Begins sitting up.) I think I was really out of it.

EVAN: Hmm.

BETH: I guess I was tired. I haven't been sleeping very much.

EVAN: Yeah. Me too. 

BETH: Umm. Do you want some breakfast? I can make us a bite to eat. 

EVAN: No, let me. I'll make breakfast. How do you like your eggs? 

BETH: However. Scrambled, I guess.

EVAN: Scrambled eggs. Coming right up. Do you want tea? Coffee? Juice? I think I have orange juice. (Finds the carton of orange juice on the counter/table.) But...it's expired. Someone sent me a box of oranges, though. I can squeeze you some orange juice.

BETH: Evan. Wait.

EVAN: (Turns around for a moment and waits.) For what?

BETH: Nothing. You just seem really nervous. You don't have to be nervous. 

EVAN: I'm not nervous. I'm just ... invigorated. (He shoves the wood pieces out of sight with his foot.) So. Tea? Coffee? Juice? 

BETH: I'll come help. Just let me go home and freshen up a bit. 

EVAN: (Distracted again as he catches sight of a bigger jewelry box sitting on top of the dresser.) Okay. 

(Beth exits and Evan walks over to the jewelry box. He looks at it for a moment, then picks it up to pack it away right. As he is shoving it behind something, Beth enters again.)

***BETH: Didn't you tear that thing up last night?

***EVAN: What?

BETH: The rain. Did you hear it coming in last night?

EVAN: Oh. No. Not really.

BETH: Yeah, neither did I. Looks pretty wet out though.

EVAN: Gets pretty rainy here, doesn't it? 

BETH: Should I get some coffee going?

EVAN: I'll make the eggs. 

(They move around together in the kitchen and bump into each other.) 

EVAN: I'm sorry. Excuse me.

BETH: Evan, it's okay. Listen. Nothing happened last night. And nothing's changed. I just want to be here for you. 

EVAN: Maybe something's changed. Maybe something's different. 

BETH: (Not sure what to make of this.) Oh. Like what?

EVAN: (Has to walk away or pace or something to think about this.) You reach a point, you know? You get to the top of a mountain and you realize there's nothing there. Just clouds and fog. So you have to go back down the mountain. 

BETH: (Puzzled, then smiling.) Are you so poetic every morning?

EVAN: Not poetic. Just pathetic.

BETH: Nonsense. You're holding up really well. 

EVAN: I have to get the mountain behind me now.

BETH: Someday you will. 

EVAN: I can't keep dwelling on Olivia. Going crazy over her. When she didn't even care. I need to let her go. 

BETH: It's hard to let things go. When you don't have the answers.

EVAN: Yeah. I need answers. (Brushes a hand over his computer?)

BETH: I can't give you any answers. But I've got some other ideas for you. The Chiefs are playing the Bears tonight. Do you want to go to a bar and watch?

EVAN: Really. Yeah. You know? That sounds fun. I think I can vaguely remember what the world is like outside.

BETH: Good news. It's always there.

>>>EVAN: Can we go to that bar with the chess boards?

BETH: Yeah! That sounds fun! 

EVAN: This time Olivia won't be sighing in the corner trying to —

(He stops, distracted by his memory of her. Beth smiles sadly and reaches for his hand.)

BETH: You're not alone. I'm here for you.

(Evan smiles back at her, too, and flips his hands around so that they are holding hands. Lights fade out.)
End of Scene 1. 






Scene 2

(Logan sits with a look of pensive melancholy, gazing at his computer as the Skype ringtone sounds. Finally, Candie picks up.)

CANDIE: Hello there. How are you today?LOGAN: (Ponders the screen but does not respond.)

CANDIE: Can you hear me? Are we set up on sound? ... CAN. YOU. HEEEAR. MEEEEE?  (Fiddles with microphone.) Fucking Tad. I told him not to fuck around with cheap equipment. (To someone else.) Tad! Hey, Tad! Stop whacking off and get your lazy ass over here!LOGAN: (Snaps out of his trance.) I’m here. I can hear you. CANDIE: Oh! Okay, then. Well, I, um — (To someone else.) Never mind! I – I won’t be requiring tech support anymore. You can ... go back to your business. (To Logan) So. All righty then. Let's get started. Last week, I performed an assessment and we arrived at the joint decision to move you up to a therapy patient. Now, I practice an exciting, multi-faceted, multi-disciplinary form of cyber therapy that can change its shape and form at any moment. This is an innovative and groundbreaking field, that works in varied approaches. Before I begin my sessions, I like to perform a cleansing, gently hypnotic relaxation technique. One that helps you to feel comfortable, and helps us to connect to each other, at an intense level. So, first of all, I'd like you to shed your outer —

LOGAN: I don't believe in heaven.

CANDIE: Or, you can just start talking. 

LOGAN: And I definitely don't believe in hell. I’d like to believe in God. I don't know if I believe in ghosts, but I think, maybe. I think we all leave something behind, but I don't know what it is. It's like dark matter. Do you know dark matter?

CANDIE: I've heard the news of its discovery. 

LOGAN: It's like, the opposite of matter. It's not really there, and they didn't know about it for a long time, but then they said that if you listen carefully in space, you can hear it scream. You know how we're all made out of atoms? I think, maybe, when we die, we create the opposite of atoms. Like, negative space. And it works like a magnet, drawing the positive space we used to know as close as we can, until there's no more room to breathe.CANDIE: ... Do you open your windows at home? Fresh air can do wonders for the soul.

LOGAN: I died once. Yeah. I did. Not very many people know that about me.

CANDIE: I see. And what was that like?

LOGAN: I was eight years old. And I was at my uncle's house in Los Angeles. We were having a family reunion, except it was more like a family separation, because both my parents and my cousin's  parents were getting a divorce that week. So everybody was drinking. Anyway, on the third night, I saw this thing at the bottom of the pool. I didn't know what it was, but I liked the way it sparkled, so I tried to get it, but the water was much deeper than I thought it was and I fell in. And I had taken swim lessons before, but I got so scared that I forgot. How to swim, I mean. So then the water started filling my lungs. And I couldn't breathe. And nobody noticed me because they were all drunk. When they finally revived me, I had been dead for three minutes. And after that I always remembered what it was like to be dead. 

CANDIE: (In a different, gentler, tone.) And what was that like?

LOGAN: There's water all around you. Your screams go into the water in bubbles, but nobody can hear them. Everything slows down. The water drags you down. You're so heavy and so cold and so, so alone. Sometimes I can still feel the water seeping back into my lungs, like death creeping back inside me. 

CANDIE: And what is that like?

LOGAN: (Shrugs.) I tried to look it up on Web MD. But, they didn't have anything like that. 

CANDIE: Yes, well, traditional western medicine is deeply lacking in its understanding of the psyche and the meta-psyche. 

LOGAN: This is what I learned though. I experienced death, yet I'm not dead. So Death isn't always so final. Thus, if she experienced death, but she's still here, then is she not really dead? 

CANDIE: (Gently.) You mean, your friend. Olivia.

LOGAN: (Nods.) I think of her inside that ocean. Lost inside all of that space. Screaming and screaming and no one can hear her. No one can save her from drowning. 

CANDIE: I think you're imagining her in a form of purgatory. But maybe you can remember her in a more positive light. Because you're right, you know. The dead do live on, in our memories of them. By choosing to remember them, we can honor them, and keep them alive in our hearts. 

LOGAN: She wrote to me. I got an email from her. And the footsteps are back. (Looks up at the ceiling.) They've been back 10 days now. No singing though. It could be the guy, but he never made so many footsteps. 

CANDIE: What did the email say?

LOGAN: I think it's from her. She sounds a little different, but, she did just die, and that can really change a person. 

CANDIE: True. 

LOGAN: But then, I think: No. It can't be. You know it can't be. You're just being a big fool. And then I think: But who else can it be? Who else does this kind of work? And after that I think: Can it be me? What if I'm doing it, and I just don't know it. What if I'm losing it? And after all of this thinking, I am just confused, and sad, and the only thinking left that I can do is the thinking of her floating in the water. 

CANDIE: You're going to have to slow down and explain this to me a little bit. 

LOGAN: (Takes a deep breath.) Remember when I told you I was an independent contractor?

CANDIE: Uh huh.

LOGAN: Well. I'm not just an independent contractor. I'm also a profile collector. Creator. Collector. 

CANDIE: What does that mean?

LOGAN: Sometimes I'll find a picture of someone online. Or a name. And I'll take that person's picture and I'll make him a profile. And I'll give him a job, and hobbies, and friends, and their friends will write on their timelines, and take pictures with them, and sometimes they'll get married, or have kids, or start vegan recipe blogs. 

CANDIE: So you're an identity thief.

LOGAN: Oh, no, no. I don't steal identities. I — I gift identities. Like, after I watched the documentary of Marie Antoinette, I gifted her a profile, where she's a stand-up comedian. And a vampire. And Marguerite Thompson, who used to live in this unit before me? Well, she was very old, and she died, but in her closet, I found a box of steamy love letters, so now she self-publishes erotica. She was an Amazon bestseller last year! David Stephen Smith is a web designer. Ferdinand makes terrariums and sells them on eBay. And Timothy-Timone...(Beat.) Timothy-Timone is Olivia's best friend. He's a musician and a composer. He's not very good though. He's still learning.

CANDIE: You sound like you're very busy. How often do you masturbate?

LOGAN: (Shocked.) Well that's a little socially awkward of you, isn't it?

CANDIE: I am your cybersexual therapist. I think I'm allowed to ask.

LOGAN: A...normal...amount. 

CANDIE: Okay. And does Olivia figure into your masturbation? How do you write her into your fantasies?

LOGAN: Nnnnnno. That's not what this is about. 

CANDIE: Enlighten me. 

LOGAN: All of these people are Pinnochio. And I hold the strings to their puppet arms and legs. But now, here's someone who's alive! When she's supposed to be dead. So it's like the Blue Fairy has arrived, or maybe I'm the Blue Fairy, or maybe there is no Blue Fairy and this is all a trick. And if this is all a trick, then I don't even know what to say to her! But, still, she's alive somehow. She's there. On the other end. And I didn't make her up. She's real. Except, she thinks she's talking to Timothy, but she's talking to me, but she doesn't know it's me. So I'm not real. I'm a trick.

CANDIE: I can see how this may lead to some confusion.

LOGAN: I need to tell her who I am! I need to tell her that I'm Timothy, and I'm also Logan, Timothy's friend who works in Internet security. So when she came and met me, she also met Timothy, so she DOES already know Timothy. (Beat.) Wow. Your therapy is really good.

CANDIE: Why, thank you. Please feel free to leave a testimonial.  

LOGAN: I will. Just as soon as I email Olivia. 

CANDIE: ... Let me know how that works out. Let's keep following up on that... Anyway, I get the sense that you need to learn to practice more honesty with yourself, and to really be in touch with your inner self. Or selves... Let's keep working in that direction.

LOGAN: Sounds good. (Begins typing on his computer.) Lavender iguana of my heart, we're going to figure out how to save her.

(Lights out.)

End of Scene 2.




Scene 3

(Evan sits in his apartment, working intensely on his computer. Beth comes in carrying some shopping bags and a movie.)

EVAN: (Looks up and closes his laptop.) Hey. How's it going?

BETH: Hi. Um, I knocked, but ... Well, you knew I was coming by.

EVAN: Oh, I guess I didn't hear you. 

BETH: What are you working on?

EVAN: Nothing. Just some work I brought home. I figured I won't be needing all that vacation time anymore, so I might as well get started on a new account. 

BETH: It's only your first week back. You should take it easy.

EVAN: (Picks up the movie she brought.) With "You're in the Superbowl, Charlie Brown"?

>>>BETH: (Shrugs.) It's a classic. But in case you objected, I did also bring: (She makes a face) "Plan 9 from Outer Space."

EVAN: (Laughs.) All right. Now we're getting somewhere. That was pretty crafty of you, Harrington. Pitting Charlie Brown against "the worst movie ever made." Unfortunately for you, I happen to know two people in this room who can't resist a horrible movie. Give me that. (Reaches for the DVD.)

BETH: No. Let's do Charlie Brown first. Charlie Brown!

(They do some flirtatious, play-wrestling, and then both realize that they are in an uncomfortable position, and try to disengage. Disengage! Disengage!! Is what their minds are screaming.)

EVAN: Okay. I can deal with Charlie Brown.

BETH: I can watch it myself, too. I usually watch Charlie Brown by myself. It's, um, hard to find a willing audience.

EVAN: I can be your willing audience. 

BETH: Heh. Thanks. Umm. Hey. I was thinking — I have to get up kind of early tomorrow — so, I might just go back and sleep at my place tonight.

EVAN: You can wake me up early. That's fine.

BETH: Yeah. But I should really — I mean, I need to catch up on my sleep a bit.

EVAN: You sleep better over here anyway. What's up? Why are you acting funnny?

BETH: (High-pitched.) I'm not acting funny. Nothing's up. The sky's up. Maybe. 

EVAN: Come on, Beth. It's me. 

BETH: That's the problem. (Beat.) I think you're doing really well, Evan. And I'm really happy for you. I don't think you need me here at night anymore.

EVAN: I don't need you here, Beth. I like you here.

BETH: That's nice. But it's also really confusing. 

EVAN: What do you mean?

BETH: I — I'm a woman. I have ovaries. Sometimes my ovaries want things that I know they shouldn't want, but they don't listen to me, because they're ovaries. 

EVAN: I'm sorry. I didn't know. I'm so sorry, Beth. 

BETH: It's not your fault. I don't blame you at all. And I don't want or expect anything from you. Like, my God, how could I? So, I just — sometimes I need to go back to my own place. I need to feel like myself. 

EVAN: I had no idea, Beth. (Pulls her into a friendly hug, in which we can see Beth looking a little confused and uncertain.) I'll make this up to you.

BETH: You really don't have to. That's not what I'm after. (She pulls apart from him.)

EVAN: If you give me some time...

BETH: To do what?

EVAN: I just need some time. 

(He gazes at her a little too intensely. Then he leans in as if to kiss her. Startled, Beth jumps back a bit. Evan, who can't quite go through with a full-on kiss, compromises and kisses her forehead, leaving Beth devastated.)

EVAN: Come on. Let's go watch some Charlie Brown. 

(They move to the couch and sit down. Happy Snoopy music begins to play. As the television casts its glow over them, Evan reaches awkwardly and puts his arm around Beth. Beth looks at his hand uncomfortably, but she doesn't move away. They both keep their eyes glued to the television screen, Evan willfully oblivious, and Beth beginning to cry. Lights out to mark the passage of time. Lights back on.)

EVAN: Well, Beth. I confess, I was a little bit skeptical, but I gotta hand it to you. You picked a good movie.

(He gets up to take the disc out. Beth watches him a moment before she speaks.)

BETH: I ... thought of Olivia today.

EVAN: Oh. (Shrugs it off.) Did you?

BETH: (Nods.) I went for a jog. I really needed it. And there were these two women running and talking behind me. They were talking about one of their weddings. And they were just batshit. They wanted to have swans and doves and an ice sculpture, and the bride said she was dis-inviting her grandmother because she wouldn't lend her some diamond necklace. I wanted to call Olivia to make fun of them, but then I remembered. And all I could think was, I miss my friend.

EVAN: Huh. (Studiously cleaning the DVD?)

>>>BETH: I walked past that bistro she liked so much on my way home. I went in and I had a glass of wine and a sticky toffee pudding. Her favorite. I ate it looking at the empty seat across from me.

EVAN: You know. I'm kind of beat. Do you want to go to bed? Unless you're still...?

BETH: I can stay. But I think I'll be up a bit longer.

EVAN: Okay. Well. I'll leave space for you.

BETH: Hey, Evan? Will you go see her with me sometime?

EVAN: Huh?

BETH: It's just...I haven't gone back to see her yet. I'd really like to bring her some flowers. Maybe some calla lilies, like she wanted in her bouquet. Can you come with me? I don't want to go by myself.

EVAN: Yeah. Sure. I can do that.

BETH: Okay. Thank you. Good night.

EVAN: Good night. Come to bed soon, okay? You have to get up early.

BETH: Mmm hmm.

(She sits stoically on the couch as the lights change and a few hours pass by. When Evan is soundly asleep, she walks around the room touching the things that are of Olivia. Finally, she comes to rest on a photograph or perhaps the jewelry box. Probably a photograph.)

BETH: Are you at peace now? Because we certainly are not.

(She sighs and hugs the photograph to her chest.)

BETH: I haven't told Evan. I haven't told anyone. What you said when we went for that walk. I thought you were joking. Because everyone gets tired. Everyone is sleep-deprived. I thought we all dream of sleeping forever. Some days. 

(She looks over at Evan, sleeping.)

BETH: You should have told me. I don't know what, but you should have told me. I didn't know you had a gun in your room. I didn't know you knew how to shoot a gun. I didn't know anything. 

BETH: When did it become too much? To be you? I thought it must have been wonderful to be you. I dreamed about being you. But I never — I never wanted this. I never actually wanted to take your place.

(She walks over to Evan and ponders his sleeping form for a moment, much like Olivia did before she killed herself.)

BETH: Are you looking down on us? Are you watching over us? ... Do you see what a mess you've made of us? I thought I forgave you. But maybe I don't. Mostly I just want to talk to you. 

(She looks back at Evan.)

BETH: I thought I would be here so we could mourn together, but now I feel like I'm the one who's alone.... We're not the only ones you left though. You left the world. 

(She goes over to Evan's computer, pauses, and then opens it up. She goes to the Memorial Site and begins playing a recording of Olivia singing. As she is on the computer though, she discovers the half-written email Evan was writing.
***Alternatively, we could have Beth check specifically what Evan is doing on his computer, and write in a more suspicious attitude that he has toward the computer, that may ignite her curiosity.)

BETH: (Confused Face.) Is this note from Olivia?

(She pulls up more emails. Frantically Reading Face.)

EVAN VOICE-OVER: "Dear Timmy. If you don't mind me calling you that. I've been waiting very eagerly for your reply. Please excuse me if I seem dis-oriented, or if I've forgotten some details about you. I've recently suffered some ... head trauma.  But I remember how much our correspondences meant to me, and I hope we can recommence it. Obviously, we have a connection, and I'd love to figure out what that connection means. What kind of music do you write? Where do you record your music? Do you teach somewhere, as well?"

EVAN VOICE-OVER: "Timothy. I'm sorry if I was overly forward in my last email. I was just eager to get to know you more. It seems like we talk so much about me, but I'd love to hear more about you. I know we've spoken on the phone as well, but ... have we met before, too? You'll have to excuse me, as some memories are escaping me. I'm going through a very hard time. I've lost someone very close to me, and I feel incredibly alone, like the air has been sucked out of the world. Like there's nothing left that matters. And all I want is to know why."

LOGAN VOICEOVER: "Dearest Olivia. I'm so sorry for not writing sooner. I didn't know what I could do for you. What I could offer you. But now I think I know how to help you. I know how to keep your voice alive.

P.S. You did meet me once. Only you didn't know it was me. But I was so happy and nervous to meet you. I've been listening to you for years. I feel very honored, that you trusted me with your papers. 

Love,
Your best friend"

(Beth finishes reading and looks up. Somehow, a creepy ominous build-up.)

EVAN VOICEOVER: "I want to meet you again. Where can I meet you? I want to know what you did to me. I want to understand. What papers are you referring to? Can I see them? Can you help me?"

(Beth looks over at Evan, who stirs in his sleep. Creepy ominous build-up reaches its peak. Beth hurries out of the apartment.)

End of Scene 3.



