Scene 4

(Olivia touches Evan's shoulder. He jumps in surprise and looks back at her, grabbing her hand. They freeze and hold the gaze a moment. The lights change to the strange memory/digital lights over Port Townsend.)

(Evan slowly moves away from Olivia and stands.)

EVAN: What are you doing here?

OLIVIA: You brought me here. (Beat.) You shouldn't have. You shouldn't go digging in the past. 

EVAN: What else am I supposed to do? 

(Olivia moves around the room a bit. They move around each other, Evan keeping a safe distance, from which he can observe this person he no longer knows. Perhaps some distant music can go up here. I'm listening to Patsy Cline "You Belong to Me" as I write this. So veto away.)

OLIVIA: You can't live in the past, Evan. You can only live for tomorrow.

EVAN: (Laughter.) Really? That's all you have to say to me?

OLIVIA: (Shrugs and sits down.) We're at the edge of the world here.

(Evan watches her a moment.)

EVAN: You left me nothing. Do you realize that? You left me nothing. 

OLIVIA: Shhh. (She looks back at him.) We can't stay here long. Let's just ... let's just be together.

EVAN: You want to be with me? (He steps closer to her.) 

OLIVIA: Of course I do, baby. 

EVAN: You want to be with me. You want to marry me? Travel the world with me? Spend your life with me? (He closes the distance between them as he asks these questions.) 

OLIVIA: I just want to be with you. 

EVAN: (He takes her chin in his hand and gazes into her face a moment.) You beautiful liar. Who the fuck are you?

(He lets her go and sits down next to her. Behind them, shadows and lights of a shifting world/identity bloom and sweep past.)

OLIVIA: Remember when you used to ask me what it was like to step on stage? You thought it was good therapy for my nervousness. And I said it was like a transition, when I'm neither myself nor the person I'm supposed to be. I'm in between. I could be anyone. 

EVAN: And who are you?

OLIVIA: Who do you want me to be? 

(Evan has no response for her. She gets closer to him and touches his face. Perhaps she gets up on her knees so that she is taller than he is.)

OLIVIA: Shhh. Rest your head on me, sweetheart. There, there. It's going to be okay. Just because I'm not with you... That's no reason to ...

(Evan pulls away from her, distrusting of her.)

OLIVIA: Hit me. Curl your fist up around all that darkness inside you. Smash your hand across my face. You know you want to. And you can. You can feel the bones crack in my cheek. You can hear the rip of my eyeball as it —

EVAN: Stop it. (He grabs her shoulders or pins her down on the ground.) 

OLIVIA: Dear Evan. (Gently touches his cheek.) Dear, dear Evan. 

EVAN: No.

OLIVIA: Evan, who is so dear to me. 

(He gives in to the touch of her fingertips on his face. But then he remembers he has other things on his mind.)

EVAN: Why do those people write you? Who are they? What do they want from you?

OLIVIA: Can't you just leave people to their whims and machinations? Can't you just be a little more accepting? Not everyone can be perfect. Not everyone can be you.

EVAN: That's bullshit. Cut it out.

OLIVIA: Do you think you're better than them or something? Do you think you're different? Do you think I picked you out from a crowd for your impeccable grooming and your glowing pristine heart?

EVAN: I don't know what you're harping on about. 

OLIVIA: Or maybe you think we're soulmates. Like God or some higher power stole a piece of your rib and made me just for you. Created me to fit along your breast bone. The missing piece of the puzzle.

EVAN: Seriously. What are you talking about?

OLIVIA: But here's the thing. You're not special. You're just like all the rest of them. 

EVAN: Are you done now? If anyone here is airing out grievances, I think it should be me. 

OLIVIA: What? Did I leave a stain on the carpet?

EVAN: You fucking bitch!

(He pushes her down again, but this time she fights back. They continue the next lines in a tussle, like the beginnings of a rape.)

EVAN: Don't you know what you're doing to me?

OLIVIA: All you ever wanted was to control me. Dress me up like a doll and loop me through your keychain —

EVAN: All I ever wanted ...

OLIVIA: ...Keep me in your pocket like loose change. 

EVAN: All I ever wanted was to love you!

(Beat.)

OLIVIA: (Changes back to her sweet self.) Oh, baby. I love you, too. Oh, dear Evan.

(Evan pushes her away and sits up holding his head, laughing-crying, until he can gather his thoughts enough.)

EVAN: When exactly did you become insane? 

(But she's no longer there, and he's alone.)

EVAN: Olivia? 

(Lights go back up to normal. Evan realizes his surroundings and stands back up. He is able to conduct himself like normal, but looks around for a moment as if to check the perimeters. He shuts the computer, goes over to her armoire, and picks up the letter.)

EVAN: (Reading.) "Dear Evan..."

(He crumples the letter up and throws it into the corner. Then he goes back to the computer and begins typing, staring intently at the screen.)

End of Scene 4. 








