Scene 3

(Evan sits in his apartment, working intensely on his computer. Beth comes in carrying some shopping bags and a movie.)

EVAN: (Looks up and closes his laptop.) Hey. How's it going?

BETH: Hi. Um, I knocked, but ... Well, you knew I was coming by.

EVAN: Oh, I guess I didn't hear you. 

BETH: What are you working on?

EVAN: Nothing. Just some work I brought home. I figured I won't be needing all that vacation time anymore, so I might as well get started on a new account. 

BETH: It's only your first week back. You should take it easy.

EVAN: (Picks up the movie she brought.) With "You're in the Superbowl, Charlie Brown"?

>>>BETH: (Shrugs.) It's a classic. But in case you objected, I did also bring: (She makes a face) "Plan 9 from Outer Space."

EVAN: (Laughs.) All right. Now we're getting somewhere. That was pretty crafty of you, Harrington. Pitting Charlie Brown against "the worst movie ever made." Unfortunately for you, I happen to know two people in this room who can't resist a horrible movie. Give me that. (Reaches for the DVD.)

BETH: No. Let's do Charlie Brown first. Charlie Brown!

(They do some flirtatious, play-wrestling, and then both realize that they are in an uncomfortable position, and try to disengage. Disengage! Disengage!! Is what their minds are screaming.)

EVAN: Okay. I can deal with Charlie Brown.

BETH: I can watch it myself, too. I usually watch Charlie Brown by myself. It's, um, hard to find a willing audience.

EVAN: I can be your willing audience. 

BETH: Heh. Thanks. Umm. Hey. I was thinking — I have to get up kind of early tomorrow — so, I might just go back and sleep at my place tonight.

EVAN: You can wake me up early. That's fine.

BETH: Yeah. But I should really — I mean, I need to catch up on my sleep a bit.

EVAN: You sleep better over here anyway. What's up? Why are you acting funnny?

BETH: (High-pitched.) I'm not acting funny. Nothing's up. The sky's up. Maybe. 

EVAN: Come on, Beth. It's me. 

BETH: That's the problem. (Beat.) I think you're doing really well, Evan. And I'm really happy for you. I don't think you need me here at night anymore.

EVAN: I don't need you here, Beth. I like you here.

BETH: That's nice. But it's also really confusing. 

EVAN: What do you mean?

BETH: I — I'm a woman. I have ovaries. Sometimes my ovaries want things that I know they shouldn't want, but they don't listen to me, because they're ovaries. 

EVAN: I'm sorry. I didn't know. I'm so sorry, Beth. 

BETH: It's not your fault. I don't blame you at all. And I don't want or expect anything from you. Like, my God, how could I? So, I just — sometimes I need to go back to my own place. I need to feel like myself. 

EVAN: I had no idea, Beth. (Pulls her into a friendly hug, in which we can see Beth looking a little confused and uncertain.) I'll make this up to you.

BETH: You really don't have to. That's not what I'm after. (She pulls apart from him.)

EVAN: If you give me some time...

BETH: To do what?

EVAN: I just need some time. 

(He gazes at her a little too intensely. Then he leans in as if to kiss her. Startled, Beth jumps back a bit. Evan, who can't quite go through with a full-on kiss, compromises and kisses her forehead, leaving Beth devastated.)

EVAN: Come on. Let's go watch some Charlie Brown. 

(They move to the couch and sit down. Happy Snoopy music begins to play. As the television casts its glow over them, Evan reaches awkwardly and puts his arm around Beth. Beth looks at his hand uncomfortably, but she doesn't move away. They both keep their eyes glued to the television screen, Evan willfully oblivious, and Beth beginning to cry. Lights out to mark the passage of time. Lights back on.)

EVAN: Well, Beth. I confess, I was a little bit skeptical, but I gotta hand it to you. You picked a good movie.

(He gets up to take the disc out. Beth watches him a moment before she speaks.)

BETH: I ... thought of Olivia today.

EVAN: Oh. (Shrugs it off.) Did you?

BETH: (Nods.) I went for a jog. I really needed it. And there were these two women running and talking behind me. They were talking about one of their weddings. And they were just batshit. They wanted to have swans and doves and an ice sculpture, and the bride said she was dis-inviting her grandmother because she wouldn't lend her some diamond necklace. I wanted to call Olivia to make fun of them, but then I remembered. And all I could think was, I miss my friend.

EVAN: Huh. (Studiously cleaning the DVD?)

>>>BETH: I walked past that bistro she liked so much on my way home. I went in and I had a glass of wine and a sticky toffee pudding. Her favorite. I ate it looking at the empty seat across from me.

EVAN: You know. I'm kind of beat. Do you want to go to bed? Unless you're still...?

BETH: I can stay. But I think I'll be up a bit longer.

EVAN: Okay. Well. I'll leave space for you.

BETH: Hey, Evan? Will you go see her with me sometime?

EVAN: Huh?

BETH: It's just...I haven't gone back to see her yet. I'd really like to bring her some flowers. Maybe some calla lilies, like she wanted in her bouquet. Can you come with me? I don't want to go by myself.

EVAN: Yeah. Sure. I can do that.

BETH: Okay. Thank you. Good night.

EVAN: Good night. Come to bed soon, okay? You have to get up early.

BETH: Mmm hmm.

(She sits stoically on the couch as the lights change and a few hours pass by. When Evan is soundly asleep, she walks around the room touching the things that are of Olivia. Finally, she comes to rest on a photograph or perhaps the jewelry box. Probably a photograph.)

BETH: Are you at peace now? Because we certainly are not.

(She sighs and hugs the photograph to her chest.)

BETH: I haven't told Evan. I haven't told anyone. What you said when we went for that walk. I thought you were joking. Because everyone gets tired. Everyone is sleep-deprived. I thought we all dream of sleeping forever. Some days. 

(She looks over at Evan, sleeping.)

BETH: You should have told me. I don't know what, but you should have told me. I didn't know you had a gun in your room. I didn't know you knew how to shoot a gun. I didn't know anything. 

BETH: When did it become too much? To be you? I thought it must have been wonderful to be you. I dreamed about being you. But I never — I never wanted this. I never actually wanted to take your place.

(She walks over to Evan and ponders his sleeping form for a moment, much like Olivia did before she killed herself.)

BETH: Are you looking down on us? Are you watching over us? ... Do you see what a mess you've made of us? I thought I forgave you. But maybe I don't. Mostly I just want to talk to you. 

(She looks back at Evan.)

BETH: I thought I would be here so we could mourn together, but now I feel like I'm the one who's alone.... We're not the only ones you left though. You left the world. 

(She goes over to Evan's computer, pauses, and then opens it up. She goes to the Memorial Site and begins playing a recording of Olivia singing. As she is on the computer though, she discovers the half-written email Evan was writing.
***Alternatively, we could have Beth check specifically what Evan is doing on his computer, and write in a more suspicious attitude that he has toward the computer, that may ignite her curiosity.)

BETH: (Confused Face.) Is this note from Olivia?

(She pulls up more emails. Frantically Reading Face.)

EVAN VOICE-OVER: "Dear Timmy. If you don't mind me calling you that. I've been waiting very eagerly for your reply. Please excuse me if I seem dis-oriented, or if I've forgotten some details about you. I've recently suffered some ... head trauma.  But I remember how much our correspondences meant to me, and I hope we can recommence it. Obviously, we have a connection, and I'd love to figure out what that connection means. What kind of music do you write? Where do you record your music? Do you teach somewhere, as well?"

EVAN VOICE-OVER: "Timothy. I'm sorry if I was overly forward in my last email. I was just eager to get to know you more. It seems like we talk so much about me, but I'd love to hear more about you. I know we've spoken on the phone as well, but ... have we met before, too? You'll have to excuse me, as some memories are escaping me. I'm going through a very hard time. I've lost someone very close to me, and I feel incredibly alone, like the air has been sucked out of the world. Like there's nothing left that matters. And all I want is to know why."

LOGAN VOICEOVER: "Dearest Olivia. I'm so sorry for not writing sooner. I didn't know what I could do for you. What I could offer you. But now I think I know how to help you. I know how to keep your voice alive.

P.S. You did meet me once. Only you didn't know it was me. But I was so happy and nervous to meet you. I've been listening to you for years. I feel very honored, that you trusted me with your papers. 

Love,
Your best friend"

(Beth finishes reading and looks up. Somehow, a creepy ominous build-up.)

EVAN VOICEOVER: "I want to meet you again. Where can I meet you? I want to know what you did to me. I want to understand. Can you help me?"

(Beth looks over at Evan, who stirs in his sleep. Creepy ominous build-up reaches its peak. Beth hurries out of the apartment.)

End of Scene 3.



