ACT I

Scene 0
Audience outside the theater are able to peruse Olivia's press information, Instagram photos, Facebook wall, and etc.


Scene 1
(Logan sits in front of his computer with a box of photos and letters next to him. He is talking to Candie over Skype, because he has hired her as a life assistance provider.)

LOGAN: Did you see that one? Okay. Go to the next page. Page 3. And scroll down to the third row of pictures. The fourth thumbnail. That's her. That's my favorite picture of her.

CANDIE: She looks a little bit skinny to me. A sad set of boobs. 

LOGAN: Are you kidding? She's perfect. I bet if Leonardo da Vinci got out the tape measure for a painting or a sculpture, he would just ... he would be like, "Mona Lisa, get your beaver face back in the closet." And then Olivia's face would be in the Louvre. (He realizes he can do this with a little digital manipulation.) I am going to blow this up and print it out.

CANDIE: So you're a connoisseur of Renaissance painting, then, as well as opera and classical music?

LOGAN: I ... sure. Uh huh.

CANDIE: I see. And what do you do for a living?

LOGAN: I thought you were an advice-giver, not a third-degree-er. 

CANDIE: I'm sorry. I like to get to know my life advancement and social balance advising clients. After assessment, I often find that I can do more meaningful work in my other capacities, such as confidence and awareness visualization coach, symbiopsychocybersexualtalk therapy, and tarot readings. But we can take things slowly, of course. We will move at your pace.

LOGAN: I am an independent contractor. 

CANDIE: Wonderful. And what exactly do you need my advice on? Remember, while your first half hour is free, I do begin charging the next half hour, even if you are a first-time client. Would you like to begin posing your questions?

LOGAN: Well, how am I supposed to know that you give good advice?

CANDIE: There are a number of testimonials on my website.

LOGAN: You could have made those up yourself.

CANDIE: Well, how would you like to resolve this issue?

LOGAN: (Thinks for a minute.) If you were a mountain lion, and you saw a gazelle and a bear, which one would you try to attack for food?

CANDIE: The gazelle. You should always go for the more ambitious. Plurs, bear meat is fatty and tough.

LOGAN: Steak or chicken?

CANDIE: Steak at a restaurant. Chicken at home. 

LOGAN: Dead by fire or death by drowning?

CANDIE: Neither. I keep a cyanide tablet hidden inside my locket at all times. 

LOGAN: That's really smart. 

CANDIE: I know. I can get to it with my teeth if my hands are tied up. Now. Do you feel prepared to continue with your session now?

LOGAN: Yes. I do. 

CANDIE: Wonderful. What can I help you with?

LOGAN: So you saw the girl, right? 

CANDIE: Yes. You had many pictures and links to share with me.

LOGAN: Okay. Now get this. She's my neighbor.

CANDIE: Uh huh.

LOGAN: She's like, for real famous, and she's my neighbor. She lives right above me. And guess what? She's my friend now. 

CANDIE: And you want some guidance to turn the friendship into a relationship.

LOGAN: Well, it's already a relationship. I mean, a friendship IS a relationship, right?

CANDIE: That's correct.

LOGAN: Okay. Right. So what do I do?

CANDIE: About what?

LOGAN: About my friend!

CANDIE: Is she ... uh ... 