Act 1 Scene 5

(Logan is sitting in front of his computer. There is some festivity in the air: party music or whatnot.)

LOGAN: (Laughing.) Oh. My. God. Marie, you crack me up. Are you guys listening to this? This woman is hilarious. Oh, boy, Marie Antoinette. You need to start taking your show to Youtube.

(Logan switches to another computer, or to a different place on the couch.)

LOGAN: Okay. I know the jokes are a little bit racist, Izzy-K-Pop, but hey man, you just gotta chill, man. We're all here for each other, all right? Now my pal Timothy, he really needs us right now. He's going through a rough patch here. I know he's pretty new to this group, but let's try to figure out how we can be here for Timothy. Because he just lost the love of his life. Okay?

(Logan types something and then sighs loudly.)

LOGAN: Yes, Ferdinand. I know you thought she was the Isabella to your Columbus, and I know your feelings are hurt, too, but she just didn't like the way you came on too strong, now did she? Maybe next time, you should think twice before you send a photoshopped Mona Lisa Bridal Portrait to someone. Goodness. Can we get something to lighten it up in here?

(He switches the music to something more upbeat and opens a can of beer. There are a few other empty bottles and beer cans and takeout boxes around the room.)

LOGAN: Okay. So. Let's review our operations. Daniel Stephen Smith has created a memorial page for the deceased, and we have all left our notes of sympathy. Is that right? (Reviews his notebook.) Gertrude and Marjorie, I am missing your notes of sympathy. Just leave a few lines of poetry or an inspirational quote. Maybe share a story you've heard about the deceased. We want to let the world know that she was loved. All right. Moving on. Daniel has also emailed the local papers to write a profile about her, and he has nominated her for a posthumous award from the Society of Women on Stage. I think a posthumous would be just the thing to cheer up our dear friend Timothy. So remember to be alert for the date that voting opens. Next issue. — 

(A knock on the door interrupts him.)

LOGAN: (Pauses.) We have no deliveries scheduled, do we?

(He checks his schedule as the door knocks again. He goes over to the door and leans his back against it, surreptitiously peering out the cat eye. Finally, when the women is turning to go, he rushes to open the door.)

LOGAN: Wait. I'm here! I'm right here! I — Hello.

(He holds himself very shyly and protectively.)

BETH: Oh. Hi. I thought you weren't home.

LOGAN:...Hi.

BETH: Hi. How are you? Um. My name is Beth. I live up on the fourth floor.

LOGAN: "Come in. Don't worry about your shoes."

BETH: Oh. I'll just — I won't be long. (She doesn't really step inside very much.) Anyway, I'm just here because ... I'm here on account of the tragedy that happened last week. When we lost one of our neighbors in this building.

LOGAN: (Nods. Perhaps he is also excited to know what she is talking about and excited that someone else cares.) I know. Olivia. That was her name. She died. She was my best friend.

BETH: Oh. Ummm. I didn't know you were so close to her.

LOGAN: I mean, she was my friend's best friend. 

BETH: Well, she was one of my best friends, too. And, you know, she did mention you once. 

LOGAN: She did? What did she say?

BETH: Uh. She said you were one of the most interesting people who lived in this building. And she said you were very talented and nice. 

LOGAN: (Happy but then sad.) I'm sad that she's gone.

BETH: Yeah. Me too.

LOGAN: I — I heard the gunshot. It woke me up. In the middle of the night. And all the police cars and the sirens came. And I watched them, right over here, (moves to his window), I watched them put her in the back of an ambulance and take her away. She was in a bag, but I knew it was her.

BETH: (Shudders. Or something. Tries to get back to business as usual.) Um. I'm bringing a card around, to all the neighbors, and I'm also asking for any donations you'd like to make to Olivia's fiance, Evan. (Perhaps a few sounds from upstairs here, making Beth pause to look at where Evan is.) He lives right above you. But, um, just a few dollars or anything you can spare. 

(Logan looks at her hard for a moment, before whipping out his checkbook and writing on this desk.)

BETH: You really don't have to give very much. I know Evan will appreciate anything for covering his rent and the funeral costs. Now, I'm not asking for a handout, and I know we're not a socialist building, so really, just, don't listen to Mrs. Widlansky. She is a malicious, mean-spirited — 

(Logan hands her the check.)

BETH: Thanks so much for your — (She gets a better look at the check, which is for $5,000) Oh! This is ... a lot of money.  

LOGAN: Take it. 

BETH: I – Are you sure? I mean, I'm really not looking for hand-outs. And this is ... This is really nice of you.

LOGAN: It's for her. 

BETH: Thank you so much. 

LOGAN: It's no problem. 

BETH: Olivia was right about you. You are very nice. 

LOGAN: (Shrugs shyly and considers how to phrase his question.) Do you like inspirational quotes?

BETH: I have to get to work soon, so I better keep going, but it was really nice to meet you! Thank you, again. 

LOGAN: You're welcome. It was nice to meet you, too. 

(He slowly extends a hand to her as if to shake hello, but she has already dashed off on her way.)

LOGAN: My name's ... Logan. 

(He slowly turns back to his apartment, where the emptiness is for a moment, overwhelming. And then he forces himself back into his role as the puppeteer maestro.)

LOGAN: Okay, gang. Good news. So it turns out we are not alone in this operation. Isn't it great? (Beat.) There are other people out there who care. There's a whole building of people. All the people around us. (Beat.) So does anyone have a very good comment we can post? 

(He sighs and sits down. He drinks the rest of his beer, this time as an angry loner thing, rather than a social party thing. Then he turns on his computer and looks up Candie's/Constance's web site again. He dials her Skype phone.)

CANDIE: (She answers with a purr.) Hello there, Governer Mc  — (She loses the sultry.) You're not my two o' clock.

LOGAN: You're not wearing a shirt.

CANDIE: I — uh — (Changes her uncertainty.) Why? Does this ... bother you?

LOGAN: I think I would like to upgrade my sessions.

CANDIE: Well, you're going to have to go through my appointment maker application.

LOGAN: What you're doing right now ... Is this symbiopsychocybersexualtalk therapy?
***Maybe, instead: cyberpsychosexualcognitiveimmersivetalk therapy

CANDIE: It's part of it. Yes. My therapy ranges from levels red, to red hot. What would you like to sign up for? 

LOGAN: Is there a red orange?

CANDIE: We can talk about this transition and whether or not it is fitting with your treatment plan at your next session. Remember that you can only dial me during our appointed time slot. How did you get my screenname just now, anyway?

LOGAN: (Shrugs.) I know some people.

CANDIE: I'm going to have to talk to my tech guy again. Anyway. I've got other clients who are in need of my services right now. But I look forward to seeing you, at our appointed time slot. 

LOGAN: Right. I'll check you later.

CANDIE: Good bye, Mr. Blake. 

(She hangs up. Logan looks around the room for a moment. It is an empty and barren place. He goes over to his closet, or underneath his desk, and pulls out a box. He rifles through a notebook of pages, and then he pulls out a picture of Olivia.)

LOGAN: Where do you go after they take you away?

(There is a sudden incoming-message noise from his computer.)

A READING VOICE (OLIVIA'S): "Dear Timothy-Timone. If this message somehow reaches you. It is exceedingly quiet here. There is nothing to hold me but the darkness. Death is an empty room, a room that stretches as wide as the ocean. And I am floating in it. The tides are carrying me away, one by one, further and further. Please. Please save me." 

End of Scene 5. 


