Act II

Scene 1 
***Or maybe this is a continuation of scene 6. Not sure what shift/change happens exactly to make this a different scene.

(After Olivia disappears and the scraps of what remain are carried away, Evan stays seated in the spot. Perhaps he goes back to the computer, and as he types, the shadows of the digital world begin to filter out again. Shadows dance and sing past and around him as his memory of her melts into the multifaceted versions of her in the digital Internet world. The shadows are all her, and she is none of them. He goes to her dresser top and finds the jewelry box that is locked, and he fiddles with the lock only to grow impatient, so that he destroys the box instead with a hammer or something. Inside, however, are only some pieces of jewelry and nothing that really matters. It is essentially empty? Her shadows grow larger and faster and they fold in over him. He sweeps the pieces of the box off the table. The shadows converge and then disappear. Evan does some serious-faced placing the hands on the table kind of thing. And perhaps this is actually the end of Act 1 Scene 6.)
***I guess there might be a problem if Beth doesn't wake up. 
***What if this box remains essentially the same object, but we switch it out with different props, so that it gets a sturdier lock, becomes bigger the next time we see it, or eventually transforms into a metal safe? 


Scene 1

(Evan seems to have been awake for a while but we're not sure what he's been doing. He walks over to the bed where Beth is sleeping and sits down. He stares at her perhaps a little more intensely than what is considered acceptable. She begins to stir and wake up.)

BETH: Hmmm. (Blinks some and looks around.) Hey. What time is it?  (Beat.) Are you okay?

EVAN: Umm. It's nine-thirty. We don't get enough sun through these windows.

BETH: Have you been up for a while?

EVAN: No. Not long.

BETH: Oh good. (Begins sitting up.) Wow. I slept really well. I don't normally sleep well when I'm not in my own bed. 

EVAN: Hmm.

BETH: That was nice. I think I needed that. I've been having problems sleeping.

EVAN: Yeah. Me too. 

BETH: Umm. Do you want some breakfast? I can make us a bite to eat. 

EVAN: No, let me. I'll make breakfast. How do you like your eggs? 

BETH: However. Scrambled, I guess.

EVAN: Scrambled eggs. Coming right up. Do you want tea? Coffee? Juice? I think I have orange juice. But...it's expired. But someone sent me a box of oranges. I can squeeze you some orange juice.

BETH: Evan. Wait.

EVAN: (Turns around for a moment and waits.) For what?

BETH: Nothing. You just seem really nervous. You don't have to be nervous. 

EVAN: I'm not nervous. I'm just ... excited. 

BETH: I'm here for you, Evan. Whatever you need.

EVAN: Ummm. (Distracted when he notices the wood shards of the jewelry box.) Gosh. You are just so nice, Beth. Really. (He shoves the wood pieces out of sight with his foot.) So. Tea? Or coffee? Or juice? 

BETH: I'll come help. Just let me clean up a bit. 

EVAN: (Distracted again as he catches sight of a bigger jewelry box sitting on top of the dresser.) Okay. 

(Beth exits and Evan walks over to the jewelry box. He looks at it for a moment, picks it up, sets it down. Beth enters again.)

BETH: 