ACT I

Scene 0
Audience outside the theater are able to peruse Olivia's press information, Instagram photos, Facebook wall, and etc.


Scene 1
(Logan sits in front of his computer with a box of photos and letters next to him. He is talking to Candie over Skype, because he has hired her as a life assistance provider.)

LOGAN: Did you see that one? Okay. Go to the next page. Page 3. And scroll down to the third row of pictures. The fourth thumbnail. That's her. That's my favorite picture of her.

CANDIE: She looks a little bit skinny to me. A sad set of boobs. 

LOGAN: Are you kidding? She's perfect. I bet if Leonardo da Vinci got out the tape measure for a painting or a sculpture, he would just ... he would be like, "Mona Lisa, get your beaver face back in the closet." And then Olivia's face would be in the Louvre. (He realizes he can do this with a little digital manipulation.) I am going to blow this up and print it out.

CANDIE: So you're a connoisseur of Renaissance painting, then, as well as opera and classical music?

LOGAN: I ... sure. Uh huh.

CANDIE: I see. And what do you do for a living?

LOGAN: I thought you were an advice-giver, not a third-degree-er. 

CANDIE: I'm sorry. I like to get to know my life advancement and social balance advising clients. After assessment, I often find that I can do more meaningful work in my other capacities, such as confidence and awareness visualization coach, symbiopsychocybersexualtalk therapy, and tarot readings. But we can take things slowly, of course. We will move at your pace.

LOGAN: I am an independent contractor. 

CANDIE: Wonderful. And what exactly do you need my advice on? Remember, while your first half hour is free, I do begin charging the next half hour, even if you are a first-time client. Would you like to begin posing your questions?

LOGAN: Well, how am I supposed to know that you give good advice?

CANDIE: There are a number of testimonials on my website.

LOGAN: You could have made those up yourself.

CANDIE: Well, how would you like to resolve this issue?

LOGAN: (Thinks for a minute.) If you were a mountain lion, and you saw a gazelle and a bear, which one would you try to attack for food?

CANDIE: The gazelle. You should always go for the more ambitious. Plurs, bear meat is fatty and tough.

LOGAN: Steak or chicken?

CANDIE: Steak at a restaurant. Chicken at home. 

LOGAN: Dead by fire or death by drowning?

CANDIE: Neither. I keep a cyanide tablet hidden inside my locket at all times. 

LOGAN: That's really smart. 

CANDIE: I know. I can get to it with my teeth if my hands are tied up. Now. Do you feel prepared to continue with your session now?

LOGAN: Yes. I do. 

CANDIE: Wonderful. What can I help you with?

LOGAN: So you saw her, right? 

CANDIE: Yes. You had many pictures and links to share with me.

LOGAN: Okay. Now get this. She's my neighbor.

CANDIE: Uh huh.

LOGAN: She's like, for real famous, and she's my neighbor. She lives right above me. And guess what? She's my friend now. 

CANDIE: And you want some guidance to turn the friendship into a relationship.

LOGAN: Well, it's already a relationship. I mean, a friendship IS a relationship, right?

CANDIE: That's correct.

LOGAN: Okay. Right. So what do I do?

CANDIE: About what?

LOGAN: About my friend!

CANDIE: Is she ... uh ... Well. (A clearing of throats, of sorts). What kind of attention or need is your friend demanding of you?

LOGAN: What should I do if she comes over again? (Beat.) She came over today. To my house. I didn't know where to put her!

CANDIE: ... Well. How big is she? Life size? Or pocket friendly?

LOGAN: Life size! Because, I mean, she was at my door! Like, really really her. And she wasn't, like, a little person or — or a pre-adolescent. I didn't know where she wanted to sit or what she wanted to drink, or where I should sit or what to say or ... or what to do. Oh my God. She totally thinks I'm a D-O-L-T. 

CANDIE: I get the sense that you don't have company very often, that she might be the first person to visit you in months. Am I right in thinking this?

LOGAN: (Beat.) I have a lot of friends.

CANDIE: I'm sure you do, Mr. Blake. Can I call you Logan? I like to be on a first-name basis with my patients. You can call me Constance.

LOGAN: Call me whatever. She brought me things. Her things. (He lifts up a box full of papers and notebooks and diaries.) She wants me to put them on the Internet for her on a secure site that no one can read. I'm supposed to scan things, but I'm not supposed to read. She said she doesn't trust diaries anymore because anyone can read them. But if she burns them, she'll lose them forever.

CANDIE: What is the nature of your relationship with this woman again?

LOGAN: She's my neighbor. We met on the elevator. 

CANDIE: And?

LOGAN: And she sings into my vents.

CANDIE: Huh. So what is it about her then? How has she ... what's the phrase? ... grabbed your goat. 

LOGAN: She has the most incredible voice. Like, every morning, at eight, she'll wake up, and she'll start singing. Scales, first. Just scales. Really softly. And then, like, half an hour later or something, she'll come back, and she'll just, burst into song. Like, her voice will explode into my bathroom.

CANDIE: From those vents.

LOGAN: Yeah. And the first time I saw her, on the elevator, she was humming the song, and then I knew it was her. Standing next to me. And she looked completely different from how I thought she looked, cuz I thought she would look more like a bird or a peacock, but she doesn't. She looks perfect.

CANDIE: And is she aware? That you listen?

LOGAN: Sometimes I think she's singing just for me. (Beat.) But if I had to speak completely linearly and not at all co-centrically, then I would have to say that, no, she does not know that I am listening. (Beat.) But I love the way she sings for me.

CANDIE: And you want to know what to do, when she comes over?

LOGAN: I just ... I ... don't have guests very often.

CANDIE: And you don't get invited as a guest very often either, do you?  

LOGAN: I'm invited to stuff. All kinds of stuff. I got an invitation to a Midnight Tea Party. I mean, it's online. But so what? I wouldn't go out to someone else's house anyway. 

CANDIE: Why not?

LOGAN: It's like, gross? And not fun. And I just wouldn't do it.

CANDIE: Okay. That's fine. You're entitled to your likes and dislikes. It does seem to me that you have some unwarranted anxiety to release though, and then you will be able to see that you can be exactly who you were born to be, regardless of —

LOGAN: Okay. But what do I say? What should I do?

CANDIE: Well...perhaps you could try some of the standard stock phrases. Such as "How is your day?" "It's so good to see you again." or "Come in. Don't worry about your shoes."

LOGAN: Uh huh. Okay.

CANDIE: Maybe you could try watching some movies. Do you like movies? 

LOGAN: Yeah.

CANDIE: Look at what they say in the movies. Take some notes.

LOGAN: "Insert a funny movie line."

CANDIE: Yeah. Like that. Nice job. We're nearing the end of our hour now, but we can continue, if you would like to learn some mantras for anxiety control?

LOGAN: It's almost eleven. That's when she sings. 

CANDIE: I see. Well, then. I like to finish my advising sessions with a brief mantra development exercise. Work with me to complete the sentences. "When I feel anxious, I like to ..."

LOGAN: Rip apart lines of code and then put them back together again. 

CANDIE: "Now, instead of doing this, I will take deep breaths, find my center, and gravitate to my source of energy and support." Close your eyes and do this with me now. Take three deep breaths.

LOGAN: (Takes three quick sharp breaths.)

CANDIE: Deeper. You really need to feel the oxygen go to your brain.

LOGAN: (Takes three longer breaths.)

CANDIE: That's good. Now, focus your mind on your heart center. Channel yourself to the place you feel most safe and secure. What do you see there? What color is the flame of your inner chakra of light?

LOGAN: I see purple. No, lavendar. A lavendar iguana. 

CANDIE: Oh. A spirit animal. How wonderful. Let your spiritual animal be your guide next time you encounter the dark pit of anxiety, the boiling vat of uncertainty. Take deep breaths and focus your energy onto your purple iguana. And let him be your guide.

LOGAN: Lavendar.

CANDIE: Lavendar. (Beat.) All right then. Our time is up. Your credit card will be charged within the next business day, and you will receive an email with the date and time of your next appointment. Don't forget to cancel with 48 hours to avoid a fee. And remember, (insert her slogan) when life is a lemon, it's up to you to find the -ade. Other services offered include confidence and awareness visualization coaching, symbiopsychocybersexualtalk therapy, and tarot readings. Accuracy not guaranteed. See you next week!

LOGAN: Bye! I —

CANDIE: (Hangs up.)

LOGAN: — enjoyed talking to you...

LOGAN: A lavendar iguana. A lavendar iguana who sits on my heart. And he'll lead me to you. (Picks up picture of Olivia.)

(Behind him, her singing begins to float in through the vents. He crouches closer to listen.)

End of Scene 1





