Scene 2(EVAN and OLIVIA’s bedroom. Olivia undresses and gets ready for bed, rehearsing a song as she does so. She moves out of the bathroom and into the living room, putting her earrings away. As she rests her hand on the jewelry box, she seems to grow lost in thought. Then Evan enters. He's just returned from a late evening of work. Holy shit. I don't know what he does for a job anymore.) EVAN: You know what really gets me about cupcakes though? There's no good way of holding onto them. You always look like some continental prat. They're like, finger food, except finger cake, and they're just not very good.
OLIVIA: We don't have to have cupcakes. Relax. 

EVAN: I just want to make sure you never think another absurd thought about cupcakes ever again. (Kisses her.) Hello.

OLIVIA: Hi. How are you?

EVAN: Good. Looks like our ad campaign is about ready to roll out, and I'll have just enough time off to focus on the wedding and the concert.

OLIVIA: That's good.

EVAN: How was your day? Did you get the invitations out?

OLIVIA: I — um — I didn't get the chance to go the post office, actually. I was running back and forth between lessons. I had breakfast with Beth today though. She said she'd be thrilled to make our cake. So. Your cupcake worries are over.

EVAN: That's awesome. We'll have awesome cake. 

OLIVIA: I'm sorry about the invitations.

EVAN: Oh, don't worry about it. I could even drop them off tomorrow. You did all the hard work putting them together anyway. 

(Evan moves out of the room a moment to get a drink and get ready for bed.)

EVAN: Nightcap?

OLIVIA: No thanks. 

(Evan returns with a drink in hand.)

EVAN: What's wrong? You seem kind of down. Did your rehearsal not go well?

OLIVIA: No, it was fine. I'm making progress with the aria. 

EVAN: Oh good. What's wrong then? 

OLIVIA: Nothing. I'm just — tired. 

EVAN: Did you get nervous again? Come here. Your show is going to be amazing. And you're going to be so beautiful up there. And I know that planning a wedding is a lot of work, but it's going to be wonderful. No matter what happens. Because I'm going to be married to you.

OLIVIA: That's sweet.

EVAN: Hey. When we’re married, do you think we should get our initials carved into some kind of rubber stamp? (Moves away from her and does some other stuff.) We could get fabric paint and glassware paint. That seems like the easiest way to monogram all our dishtowels and wine glasses, right? We should have our own seal, you know. All the properly married people do. OLIVIA: (A small laugh.) That's an idea. 

EVAN: It's a great idea. 

OLIVIA: If you say so. 

EVAN: (Grabs her as she walks past.) I love you. I'll do everything to make you happy.

OLIVIA: (Beat.) I know. I love you too. (Kisses him real quick and disengages to get into bed, hiding herself underneath the covers.)

EVAN: Maybe we should take a trip. Get away for a while. I'd like a break, too, after I get this project done.

OLIVIA: We're already taking a honeymoon.

EVAN: Just a small trip. A day trip. I feel like I almost need to catch up. (Beat.) We could go back to Port Townsend. Hang out on that little beach behind the inn again.OLIVIA: You hated Port Townsend.EVAN:And you found dusty flea markets and lopsided pottery unequivocally charming. I’ll never know why.OLIVIA: I liked the ocean. (Evan gets into bed, too. Olivia watches him get settled in.)

OLIVIA: Sometimes I feel like it doesn't matter where you go. You'll never completely be free.

EVAN: But it's still a vacation, right?

OLIVIA: Yeah. I guess so. (Beat.) One of my student is tone deaf. You know, the little six year old girl? I play her three ascending notes and she thinks they're descending. Today, we had the kids' recital with all the other classes, and she sang louder than anyone. Most of the kids are a little shy, but she loved it. She could barely stand still she was so excited.

EVAN: She was singing from her heart. Just like you.

OLIVIA: Do I? I think I sing from my stomach now.

EVAN: It's your diaphragm.

OLIVIA: No. I think it's my stomach. That's where all the tension is before I get on the stage. And then, when I start singing, everything melts away from my stomach. 




  

EVAN: How was the rest of your day? OLIVIA: Good. I walked around town a lot. I smelled hot dogs everywhere. Coming out of doughnut shops and up the sewer grates. You wouldn’t believe how much I wanted a hot dog. I salivated for hot dog. EVAN:Was today the day you gave up being vegetarian?OLIVIA:I had a lettuce tofu wrap instead.EVAN: Ahh, so you’ve only increased in your martyr status. Another pig has lived to see tomorrow. All because of you. OLIVIA:How was your day? EVAN: Uneventful. As per usual. Adulthood's exciting the first five years. Then the tedium set in. At least there's free bagel Fridays.OLIVIA: Sounds pretty bleak.EVAN:It’ll be different for you. You’ll be famous. You'll steal the show every night.OLIVIA:I don’t care about being famous. I just want to sing. And I want them to listen.EVAN:And that’s why you’ll be famous. (Kisses her.) When you’re famous, I’ll be all like, hey, my towels are monogrammed with her towels. We share monogrammed towels.OLIVIA: Does the tedium never end?EVAN:No, but sometimes the sunlight breaks through. And I get to marry you. (Takes her hand and kisses it.) Have children with you. (Kisses her more.) Watch you sing and see you own the crowd. I get to do all of that, so I am pretty damn lucky.(Moves in for the sexual kill.) 
OLIVIA:Not tonight, please. I’m tired. It was a long day. EVAN:Okay.OLIVIA:I’m sorry. I love you.EVAN: I adore you.OLIVIA:I’ll see you in the morning.EVAN:Sleep well. OLIVIA:You, too. (They settle in for bed. Beat.) Can I tell you something? I did eat a hot dog today. In fact, I ate three.EVAN:How was it?OLIVIA:They tasted so good. I didn’t know a hot dog could taste so good. EVAN:Did you get toppings? You got toppings, right?OLIVIA:Everything I could.EVAN:Good. That’s good. I’m happy for you.OLIVIA:I’m going to dream of hot dogs tonight.EVAN:You could dream of worse.OLIVIA:I’ll dream of you and I, eating hot dogs by the Arc de Triomphe. EVAN: Like Lady and the Tramp? With Django Reinhardt playing guitar in the background?OLIVIA: Precisely.EVAN:Leave the onions off of mine, please.OLIVIA:Will do.EVAN:Hey. Tomorrow’s Third Wednesday. Can you run to the bank?OLIVIA: Sure. No problem.EVAN:Okay. Thanks, love. Good night.OLIVIA:Night.(Lights off until the middle of the night. Lights up on Olivia as she sits up in bed and ponders Evan’s sleeping form.)OLIVIA: Evan? Evan? I want a cigarette so bad. God. ... I love you. Do you still love me? I love you so much... (She kisses him.) Do you know that? Will you remember that? (Kises him again.)(Olivia gets up and walks around the stage. She takes a gun out of a drawer and then curls up in a fetal position on the floor. It takes a while for her to press the trigger, but she does it, she puts that fucking bullet inside her brain. The sound of it jolts Evan awake.)End of Scene 2. Scene 3(Living room of Evan’s apartment, in some happy-sad, past-present mish-mash. The lighting is a little bit off. Evan and Olivia are seated close together. Olivia is on her laptop. Beth sits a little bit off to the side, a little bit separated from them. They have some beer and food out.)OLIVIA:
My web site is out-of-date again. I have to add all these new performance dates. And now my agent wants me to tweet, too.

EVAN:
(Gives Beth a look.) Oh, the plight of being successful.

OLIVIA:
It takes up a lot of time. I mean, I could be practicing. Or wedding planning.

BETH:
How is that going? I've been working on the cake EVAN:Pretty well. I think we've gotta meet with the caterers on Monday, and then we'll finalize the menu. BETH:That's good. Thanks so much for letting me make the cake, you guys. I’ve been testing a whole bunch of recipes, and I think I’ve got some good ones.OLIVIA:Wait. Caterers on Monday? What time? I have rehearsals all afternoon, and two private lessons in the morning ... I can’t wait till this is all over.EVAN:Come on, Liv. You get to choose the ice sculpture.BETH:(Excited.) You’re getting an ice sculpture?OLIVIA:Of course not. What would we do with an ice sculpture? Make a statue of swans?EVAN:I was thinking we should make a statue of my penis.BETH:(Laughter, then the fear that she has laughed too much.)OLIVIA:It would just keep shrinking all night.(She and Evan make a face. Her computer makes a noise, and they get back to work.)EVAN:
Okay, Monday's out. What about Wednesday afternoon?

OLIVIA:I can’t. I have a thing.EVAN:Really? I thought you kept Wednesdays off.OLIVIA:Yeah, but something came up. Let’s do Thursday! Can we do that?EVAN:Okay. I could do Thursday morning. Does that work?

OLIVIA:
Yep.

EVAN:
Great. I’ll let them know tomorrow. (Olivia goes back to her website. She tries to update it, but stares blankly at the screen instead.) 
BETH:You guys seem busy. Did you end up looking at those houses downtown?EVAN:No. Too busy. Looks like we’re going to hold off the homeowner thing another year. BETH:Oh! Good! I mean, maybe not good, but I’m happy. I like having you guys across the hall. EVAN:Well, even if we did move, you’d still be the Protector of our Spare Key. OLIVIA:
(Snapping out of her daze.) I got those invitations stuffed yesterday. (She gets up to grab the invitations.)EVAN:Olivia doesn’t want to move. She’s far too attached to her precious bathroom.OLIVIA:It’s got great acoustics! (Coming back with the invitations and sets them down.) These need to be addressed. Oh, Beth, I almost forgot. My agent is looking for some people for this musical piece. Are you still looking for gigs? I could send him your headshot. 
BETH:Oh, no. Please don’t. I’m not — I’m not really trying to do the acting thing anymore. I — I like baking.EVAN:You could do both! Why not? You totally should.BETH:Do you need help with the envelopes? I can help you address them.OLIVIA:Oh. Don’t worry about it. I’ve got it.
(She picks up a pen and scrolls through her address book. She puts the pen to paper but she doesn’t write.)EVAN:So, let’s hear more about the cake. What’s going on with the cake?BETH:Okay, so I made three different kinds last night.EVAN:Three different cakes? Beth, you’re a baking machine! We aren’t even paying you. Seriously, you can make it with a box mix.BETH:Oh, it didn’t take very long. This is my first wedding cake. And it’s for you! I just want to make sure it’s good.EVAN:It’s gonna be great.BETH:I was thinking three layers, with another small bride and groom cake on top, and every layer will be a different flavor. Yesterday, I made a coconut cream, a red velvet, and a double chocolate raspberry. EVAN:Double chocolate raspberry? What do you think of that, Liv? OLIVIA:(Startled, looks up.) Sounds great.(She puts the envelopes away and tries to particpate more in the conversation.) Yeah. So are we going to do a cake-tasting? 
EVAN:Cake-tasting! How can you complain about wedding planning when there's cake-tasting?

OLIVIA:
I'm not complaining. BETH:That would be so much fun. I can't wait for you guys to try the double chocolate raspberry. It's got double chocolate stout in it.

OLIVIA:
That sounds great, Beth. (To Evan.) Doesn't it, sweetheart?

BETH:
I just want to experiment with the frosting a bit, and try a few more flavors. Then I'll be ready. I'm so excited.

(Another beep from Olivia's phone, which causes her to turn on her computer again. She makes a face as she looks at it.)

EVAN:
What's going on?

OLIVIA:
Oh, nothing. (She shuts her computer.) Just checking my Facebook wall. 

EVAN:
All right. Should we schedule a cake-tasting, too?

BETH:
Yeah. Sounds good. Just give me a week?

EVAN:
Sure. Let me look at our calendars... How is...?
(Olivia gets up and starts walking away.)EVAN:Olivia? Where are you going? ... Come back here.(The scene changes as Olivia walks away. Perhaps there is a moment where she glances back, and they share a look, but then she continues walking away. As Evan continues looking in her direction, mourners step onto the stage and bring food and flowers. Beth cries and grabs Evan's hand, but he continues to look in the direction Olivia exited.)

EVAN:
Come back.

End of Scene 3

 
