Scene 3

(While looking at pictures of him and Olivia together online, Evan is transported back to a memory of them on the beach in Port  Townsend. Olivia is seated on the stage. Evan stands behind her, watching her a moment before walking over.)

**** Should there be a dramatic reunion, or should it seem like they have been sitting there for a long time? 

OLIVIA: (Looking up.) Took you long enough. 

EVAN: You didn't leave a note. I had to ask the front desk if they saw you. 

OLIVIA: I left a note. By the lamp.

EVAN: Oh. I guess I missed it. How long have you been out here?

OLIVIA: Not long. Just since the sun started creeping up. It's so beautiful here. It's like we're sitting at the edge of the world. 

EVAN: You really didn't pay attention in geography class, did you?

OLIVIA: Shut up. Just sit with me. (Pats the spot next to her.) It's so nice to get away.

EVAN: From me?

OLIVIA: No. From the world, silly. Why would I need to get away from you?

EVAN: Well. Last night wasn't the most pleasant, was it?

OLIVIA: We had a fight. That will happen, you know.

EVAN: So you didn't wander off at daybreak to get away from me?

OLIVIA: (Shakes her head and takes his hand.) I did not. 

EVAN: Oh. Cool.

OLIVIA: Is that what you thought? 

EVAN: I didn't really know what to think.

OLIVIA: So you came out looking for me?

EVAN: Had to try. Right? 

OLIVIA: Well, I'm glad you did. And I'm sorry I didn't put the note somewhere more obvious.

EVAN: That's okay. Listen. I'm — I'm sorry. Your voice is your art. It's entirely your thing. And I should't try to interfere or meddle with it. I feel really stupid. I can't believe I said your music was like your secret Italian lover.

OLIVIA: Who...what was it?...lived in my closet, ate snails, and talked in trills?

EVAN: There was alcohol involved.

OLIVIA: It was stupid.

EVAN: I know it was. And I'm sorry.

OLIVIA: It was stupid because, can't you see how much I like you?

EVAN: You're very forgiving. Have I ever told you that? That might be one your best attributes.

OLIVIA: (Laughs a little.)

EVAN: Why me? I mean, I'm just a guy. I don't have anything like that. An art, or a gift. I'm just — I'm just a blip.

OLIVIA: We're all just blips. And you're lucky. You're lucky you don't have a thing.

EVAN: What do you mean?

OLIVIA: Maybe my music is like a lover, but it's the lover that never gives back. 

EVAN: What are you talking about? You're amazing. Everyone knows you're amazing. You're going to be a star one day. 

OLIVIA: I just like to sing. 

EVAN: I know. And I don't want to take that away from you. I want to be part of it with you. (Beat.) I want to be part of your future.

(They share a look as they both realize that the future is coming for them. Olivia slowly turns away from Evan, and loops back to the beginning.)

OLIVIA: It's so beautiful here. It's like we're sitting at the edge of the world.

EVAN: (More stilted this time. As if he is outside of the scene.) You really didn't pay attention in geography class, did you?

OLIVIA: Shut up. Just stay with me. It's so nice to get away.

EVAN: From what?

OLIVIA: From the world, silly.

EVAN: What's so bad about the world?

(OLIVIA is silent.)

EVAN: What did you write in your note?

OLIVIA: Which note?

EVAN: You know which note.

OLIVIA: Nothing.

EVAN: What did you mean to write?

OLIVIA: "Dear Evan..."

(Three knocks at the door.)

EVAN: That's the part you did write. What did you mean to write? In the part you did not write?

OLIVIA: "Dear Evan... what?"

(Four knocks at the door. The lights on the stage flood back and we see Evan's dishevelled apartment. He is seated on the ground in front of his computer. Perhaps his balls are hanging out or perhaps they are not. That is up to costume and design. But Evan is in a rather rumpled kind of state.)

BETH: Evan, are you there? It's me! It's Beth!

EVAN: (Gathers up his strength, shuts his computer, and opens the door.) Beth! Hey! How are you?

BETH: I'm all right. How are you holding up? I haven't seen you since the memorial service. 

(She picks up her bag and a bouquet of flowers and walks in.)

BETH: I found these outside my door. I think they were for you.

EVAN: (Reading the outside of the envelope). "To Olivia."

BETH: What does it say? I feel very touched, you know, seeing how much she meant to her fans. Not just to her students, or her peers, but people who just happened to hear her sing, and it made a difference in their lives somehow. I think that's what she wanted, you know?

EVAN: "You're gone now. But I needed to write you. Because you sang with more of a bang than anyone I've ever seen. Life ain't no thang, but yours was a thing. I miss the way your titties moved when you sang."  

BETH: Oh. 

EVAN: I don't get it. Am I supposed to rap this? Who sent this?

BETH: I — I don't know. I just found them outside my door. 

EVAN: (He admires the flowers.) They're pretty. (He chucks them in the garbage.)

BETH: I brought you a beef stroganoff!

EVAN: Oh. Thanks, Beth. You don't have to do that, you know. I'm okay. I've got — I've got three plates of deviled eggs left over from the service. Do you — Can I get you an egg?

BETH: Oh. I'm all right. Don't worry about me. I just wanted to check on you. 

EVAN: I'm great, Beth. Look. Check out these eggs. I've got your basic deviled egg, with the chili pepper on top. You know, very basic. This plate goes up a notch, with the addition of celery and dill. It gives it a great crunch, the celery. And now these guys, these sick little green guys ... Avocado and crab meat. Can you believe it? Avocado and crab meat. In an egg! Like, what are they going to do next, right?

BETH: Yeah...

EVAN: Have one, Beth. Have an egg.

BETH: Uh. Okay. All right. (Takes a bite.) Oh. They're good.

EVAN: Aren't they? 

BETH: But they might be...going bad?

EVAN: (Sticks an egg in his mouth and speaks muffledly.) Can you believe how fucking good this is? Like, Come. On. 

BETH: Mmm hmm. (Politely swallows or spits it out into a napkin.) Hey, why don't I heat up that stroganoff for you, and you can...you can have it later.

EVAN: You're the best, Beth. 

BETH: (Comes back and sits next to him.) I meant what I said, you know. Everyone's taking her death really hard. There's a whole community of people mourning with you right now. You're not alone. 

EVAN: (But he feels pretty damn alone.) Great. 

BETH: Please let me know how I can help, Evan. I really just want to help. Whatever you need. I'm right across the hall. 

EVAN: You really are the best, Beth.

BETH: (Smiles kind of shyly. She's touched by the compliment, but  this re-surfacing crush on Evan reminds her of Olivia.) Did you know they changed her web site into a memorial?

EVAN: Who did? The web site I made? Or the one with the Music School?

BETH: Her personal one.

EVAN: That's the one I made. 

BETH: It's a memorial page now. People have been leaving her notes, and posting pictures and stuff. I was on it this morning. It felt — It was strange, but it also felt good, you know. Having these people — these strangers, really — to mourn with me.

EVAN: They changed it into a memorial?

BETH: You should look at it, Evan. Read some of the notes. She meant a lot to some of her listeners. 

EVAN: Yeah.

BETH: I posted some pictures, too. Of the trip we all took to the San Juans. That was our first time all hanging out together, remember? I was really nervous, because I'd only known you guys for like a month, but Olivia was so nice. She insisted I come along to see more of the redeeming qualities of the west coast.

EVAN: You're not in Iowa anymore, Toto. 

BETH: She was so excited to be on the ocean. She said it was like the edge of the world.

EVAN: Yeah. She said that.

BETH: And then the whales came out of the water. It was so perfect. Three whales and three of us. And Olivia said that whales ....

EVAN: It's an old myth. 

BETH: She was one of those most people, you know. She burned slightly brighter than the rest of us. But she was so warm with her light. I never would have thought — But then I should have known, and I ... I'm so sorry, Evan. I told myself I was only going to talk about happy things. Like you really need to listen to me blab on and on right now. God. I am so —

EVAN: Relax, Beth. It's okay. 

BETH: I am so sorry. 

EVAN: I know. (Shrugs.) What are you going to do, you know? 

BETH: (Rushes away and takes out the food.) I have to get to work, but, please take care of yourself, Evan? Eat some stroganoff and, maybe, get outside for a while? 

EVAN: I will. Don't worry about me. (Eats another egg.)

BETH: (Looks at him a moment and then gives him a tight but quick hug before she exits.)

EVAN: (Drops the smile and puts the half-eaten egg back on the plate. He looks off into the distance puzzled for a moment as he lets his mind wander. Then he remembers what Beth said about the web site.) "Life ain't no thang, but you life was a thing." Memorial page.

EVAN: (Jumps off his seat and over to his computer, where he goes to the web site that he made for Olivia.) Someone just changed my web page?...What is this? 1996 html? ... Bad design. 

(As he scrolls through the web page, perhaps a chorus of various other voices can read the notes from off stage?)

NOTE 1: (Female voice) I was checking your website for new recordings and I realized what had happened. This made me so sad. I've never met you or even seen you on stage, but my friend gave me your CD last year and I listen to it often. I will listen to it again today and say prayers for your loved ones. I'm sorry you were in so much pain. 

NOTE 2: (Female voice) I went to middle school with Olivia. She was in the school musical and I was her understudy. I remember watching her and thinking, damn, she's going to be Sarah Brightman one day. But now she's dead. Dead and buried and gone. It just reminds me that we should never ignore someone else's pain. What the world needs now is kindness and love.

NOTE 3: (Bad male singing) "When the wind is blowing in your face/And the whole world is on your case./I could offer you a warm embrace./To make you feel my love, [Oliviaaa] ... The storms are rolling on the raging sea..."

EVAN: (Winces and switches to something else.)

NOTE 4: (Unisex quote generator voice.) Like a bird singing in the rain, let grateful memories survive in time of sorrow.  

NOTE 5: (Female quote voice.) Death leaves a heartache no one can heal, love leaves a memory no one can steal.

NOTE 6: (Male quote voice.) When someone you love becomes a memory, the memory becomes a treasure.

NOTE 7: (Advertisement voice.) FIND YOUR TREASURE ON THE HIGH SEAS. CLICK HERE TO WIN A FREE CRUISE IN THE FLORIDA KEYS.

EVAN: What?

LOGAN/TIMOTHY: (Perhaps in a digitally distorted voice?) When the  bullet went through you, it also went through me. It ripped through my dreams and lodged itself into my heart. My heart bleeds because you are gone. You took my breath, my soul, with you. 

EVAN: "Love, Timothy-Timone." Who? Timothy? Tim?

LOGAN/TIMOTHY: I know I haven't known you long, but the letters we've exchanged and the time we've shared have meant so much. Now that you are no longer here, I can only direct my questions to the air and look for your response in the raindrops or the wind. 

EVAN: Who the hell is this guy? 

(He types some stuff into the computer and does a search. A whole bunch of other sounds of messages rushing in or files opening flood the room. Evan has entered a different email account of Olivia's.)

EVAN: Liv2Sing. Is that Olivia?

TIMOTHY/LOGAN: Hey there, Liv2Sing! I checked with my friend and he said hells yeah you can come downstairs and knock on his door. He'll be happy to help in any way he can. Just remember he's super shy, okay? But he's really, really nice, and he's like, your biggest fan ...

Liv2Sing: You mentioned your friend...the one who's good with computers. I really need someone's help right now, because I'm having some issues with privacy, and people I don't know are following me ...

DISTORTED VOICE: I want to eat your pussy out and suck your juices dry, you dirty, sexy whore...

DISTORTED VOICE: Put my cock in your mouth ... Put my cock in your mouth ... Put my cock in your mouth ...

Liv2Sing: (In a clear and distinct Olivia voice.) But there are parts of me that must stay hidden. That don't belong in daylight. That nobody should see. 

DISTORTED VOICE: Damn, girl. You hot. You can sing opera to me all night long. When you hit those high notes, I just want to close a hand over your throat and feel it hum in my fist. Let me see you sing again, girl. 

OLIVIA: (Steps onto the stage behind Evan.) 

DISTORTED VOICE: "...I'd go hungry. I'd go black and blue./ There is nothing that I wouldn't do./ To make you feel my love..."

(Olivia reaches a hand out and touches Evan's shoulder. He jumps in surprise and looks back at her. They hold the gaze a moment. The lights change to the strange memory/digital lights over Port Townsend.)

OLIVIA: You shouldn't be here. You shouldn't go digging in the past. 

EVAN: What else am I supposed to do? 



