
Scene 2

(Logan sits with a look of pensive melancholy, gazing at his computer as the Skype ringtone sounds. Finally, Candie picks up.)

CANDIE: Hello there. How are you today?LOGAN: (Ponders the screen but does not respond.)

CANDIE: Can you hear me? Are we set up on sound? ... CAN. YOU. HEEEAR. MEEEEE?  (Fiddles with microphone.) Fucking Tad. I told him not to fuck around with cheap equipment. (To someone else.) Tad! Hey, Tad! Stop whacking off and get your lazy ass over here!LOGAN: (Snaps out of his trance.) I’m here. I can hear you. CANDIE: Oh! Okay, then. Well, I, um — (To someone else.) Never mind! I – I won’t be requiring tech support anymore. You can ... go back to your business. (To Logan) So. All righty then. Let's get started. Last week, I performed an assessment and we arrived at the joint decision to move you up to a therapy patient. Now, I practice an exciting, multi-faceted, multi-disciplinary form of cyber therapy that can change its shape and form at any moment. This is an innovative and groundbreaking field, that works in varied approaches. Before I begin my sessions, I like to perform a cleansing, gently hypnotic relaxation technique. One that helps you to feel comfortable, and helps us to connect to each other, at an intense level. So, first of all, I'd like you to shed your outer —

LOGAN: I don't believe in heaven.

CANDIE: Or, you can just start talking. 

LOGAN: And I definitely don't believe in hell. I’d like to believe in God. I don't know if I believe in ghosts, but I think, maybe. I think we all leave something behind, but I don't know what it is. It's like dark matter. Do you know dark matter?

CANDIE: I've heard the news of its discovery. 

LOGAN: It's like, the opposite of matter. It's not really there, and they didn't know about it for a long time, but then they said that if you listen carefully in space, you can hear it scream. You know how we're all made out of atoms? I think, maybe, when we die, we create the opposite of atoms. Like, negative space. And it works like a magnet, drawing the positive space we used to know as close as we can, until there's no more room to breathe.CANDIE: ... Do you keep your windows open at home? Fresh air can do wonders for the soul.

LOGAN: I died once. Yeah. I did. Not very many people know that about me.

CANDIE: I see. And what was that like?

LOGAN: I was eight years old. And I was at my uncle's house in Los Angeles. We were having a family reunion, except it was more like a family separation, because both my parents and my cousin's  parents were getting a divorce that week. So everybody was drinking. Anyway, on the third night, I saw this thing at the bottom of the pool. I didn't know what it was, but I liked the way it sparkled, so I tried to get it, but the water was much deeper than I thought it was and I fell in. And I had taken swim lessons before, but I got so scared that I forgot. How to swim, I mean. So then the water started filling my lungs. And I couldn't breathe. And nobody noticed me because they were all drunk. When they finally revived me, I had been dead for three minutes. And after that I always remembered what it was like to be dead. 

CANDIE: (In a different, gentler, tone.) And what was that like?

LOGAN: It was like floating inside this vast ocean. Water all around you. Your screams go into the water in bubbles, but nobody can hear them. Everything slows down. The water drags you down. You're so heavy and so cold and so, so alone. Sometimes I can still feel the water seeping back into my lungs, like death creeping back inside me. 

CANDIE: And what is that like?

LOGAN: (Shrugs.) I tried to look it up on Web MD. But, they didn't have anything like that. 

CANDIE: Yes, well, traditional western medicine is deeply lacking in its understanding of the psyche and the meta-psyche. 

LOGAN: This is what I learned though. I experienced death, yet I'm not dead. So Death isn't always so final. Thus, if she experienced death, but she's still here, then is she not really dead? 

CANDIE: (Gently.) You mean, your friend. Olivia.

LOGAN: (Nods.) I think of her inside that ocean. Lost inside all of that space. Screaming and screaming and no one can hear her. No one can save her from drowning. 

CANDIE: I think you're imagining her in a form of purgatory. But maybe you can remember her in a more positive light. Because you're right, you know. The dead do live on, in our memories of them. By choosing to remember them, we can honor them, and keep them alive in our hearts. 

LOGAN: She's writing to me. 

CANDIE: She...huh?

LOGAN: I've been getting emails from her. They might not be her, but I think they're from her. She sounds a little different, but then again, she did just die, and that can change a person sometimes. 

CANDIE: What kind of emails are these?

LOGAN: But then, I think: No. It can't be. You know it can't be. You're just being a big fool. And then I think: But who else can it be? Who else does this kind of work? And after that I think: Can it be me? What if I'm doing it, and I just don't know it. What if I'm losing it? And after all of this thinking, I am just confused, and sad, and the only thinking left that I can do is the thinking of her floating in the ocean. 

CANDIE: You're going to have to slow down and explain this to me a little bit. 

LOGAN: (Takes a deep breath.) Remember when I told you I was an independent contractor?

CANDIE: Uh huh.

LOGAN: Well. I'm not just an independent contractor. I'm also a profile collector. Creator. Collector. 

CANDIE: What does that mean?

LOGAN: Sometimes I'll find a picture of someone online. Or a name. And I'll take that person's picture and I'll make him a profile. And I'll give him a job, and hobbies, and friends, and their friends will write on their timelines, and take pictures with them, and sometimes they'll get married, or have kids, or start vegan recipe blogs. 

CANDIE: So you're an identity thief.

LOGAN: Oh, no, no. I don't steal identities. I — I gift identities. Like, after I watched the documentary of Marie Antoinette, I gifted her a profile, where she's a stand-up comedian. And a vampire. That was just to explain the age thing. And Marguerite Thompson, who used to live in this unit before me? Well, she was very old, and she died, but in her closet, I found a box of steamy love letters, so now she self-publishes erotica. She was an Amazon bestseller last year! David Stephen Smith is a web designer. Ferdinand makes terrariums and sells them on eBay. And Timothy-Timone...(Beat.) Timothy-Timone is Olivia's best friend. He's a musician and a composer. He's not very good though. He's still learning.

CANDIE: You sound like you're very busy. How often do you masturbate?

LOGAN: (Shocked look.) Well that's a little socially awkward of you, isn't it?

CANDIE: I am your therapist. I think I'm allowed to ask.

LOGAN: A...normal...amount. 

CANDIE: Okay. And does Olivia figure into your masturbation? How do you write her into your fantasies?

LOGAN: Nnnnnno. That's not what this is about. 

CANDIE: Enlighten me. 

LOGAN: All of these people are Pinnochio. And I hold the strings to their puppet arms and legs. But now, here's someone who's alive! When she's supposed to be dead. So it's like the Blue Fairy has arrived, or maybe I'm the Blue Fairy, or maybe there is no Blue Fairy and this is all a trick. And if this is all a trick, then I don't even know what to say to her! But, still, she's alive somehow. She's there. On the other end. And I didn't make her up. She's real. Except, she thinks she's talking to Timothy, but she's talking to me, but she doesn't know it's me. So I'm not real. I'm a trick.

CANDIE: I can see how this may lead to some confusion.

LOGAN: I need to tell her who I am! I need to tell her that I'm Timothy, and I'm also Logan, Timothy's friend who works in Internet security. So when she came and met me, she also met Timothy, so she DOES already know Timothy. (Beat.) Wow. Your therapy is really good.

CANDIE: Why, thank you. 

LOGAN: I was totally able to talk through my thoughts.

CANDIE: Please feel free to leave a testimonial.  

LOGAN: I will. Just as soon as I email Olivia. 

CANDIE: ... Let me know how that works out. Let's keep following up on that... Anyway, I get the sense that you need to learn to practice more honesty with yourself, and to really be in touch with your inner self. Or selves... Let's keep working in that direction.

LOGAN: Sounds good. (Begins typing on his computer.) Lavender iguana of my heart, we're going to figure out how to save her.

(Lights out.)

End of Scene 2.