Act 1 Scene 6

(Beth and Evan are in Evan's apartment having dinner. Beth heats up the food and brings the last dish over to the table.)

BETH: There. This is just like what my mom would do on Fridays. Throw out all the bad stuff and turn the still decent stuff into leftover soup.

EVAN: (Distractedly.) This looks delicious, Beth. Thank you. 

BETH: Hopefully it's not as bad as it sounds. Eat up.

(Neither of them eat and there is a pause, until Evan remembers to pick up his fork.)

EVAN: So how was your day?

BETH: It was good. I finished doing some errands, and I got to make the scones today. So, they're starting to trust me more at the bakery. Pretty soon I'll get to start making cakes.... (She trails off as she notices that Evan is not listening, but staring off into space.) I have a surprise for you. 

EVAN: Hmmm?

BETH: (Takes an  envelope and a card out of her purse.) This is for you.

(Evan takes the envelope without really thinking about it.)

BETH: It's from me and everyone in the building. To let you know that we care. 

EVAN: (Looking at the check she wrote.) Beth. This is a lot of money.

BETH: It's to help with the rent, and the service. I mean, I know you've got a great job, but you just put down so much money for the wedding and the concert and now ... I know Olivia was trying to budget and money was still kind of tight. 

EVAN: How did you get people to open the purse strings?

BETH: Everyone wanted to help.

EVAN: (Clearly not buying it.) I think you're the only person I know in the world who would decide to do something like this and have the ability to actually do it. Thank you, Beth. This was — This was really nice of you. 

BETH: (Shakes her head.) It wasn't just me. It was everyone. We're all here for you. And that guy downstairs? I mean, I know Olivia was kind of friends with him. But he really seems to care about her, and he was really generous.

EVAN: What guy downstairs?

BETH: Oh, you know. That guy. The one who, like, never leaves his house? He gets all his groceries delivered and all those packages that come in downstairs are always for him. Olivia knew him somehow, and I thought he was a little strange — I mean, he IS a little strange — but Olivia said he was nice. Didn't she ever mention him? 

EVAN: No. What was his name?

BETH: Logan. I think Blake is his last name? 

EVAN: (Thinking to himself.) No. That's not right.

TIMOTHY-TIMONE/LOGAN/NOTE FROM BEFORE: I am so beyond excited to meet you and I 

BETH: I think that was one of the most beautiful things about Olivia. She never judged people, you know? She was always so willing to talk to you and to listen. It didn't matter who you were.

EVAN: Everyone was the same and no one was worth a thing.

BETH: What?

EVAN: Nothing. I'm just...thinking out loud.

BETH: Are you okay, Evan?

EVAN: Yeah. I'm just ... When love becomes a memory, the memory becomes a treasure. Right?

BETH: (Relieved.) I think of that one, too. It reminds me of heaven, and storing our treasure in heaven. I have to believe that she's up there now, you know? That her pain is gone and she's at peace. I haven't been to church in years, but I went to church the weekend after she... It helped. Being in church.

NOTE FROM MEMORIAL RUNNING THROUGH EVAN'S HEAD: "I was head pastor at the Covenant Church where Olivia was directing a women's chorus in our practice space. She was a lovely woman. I feel like I have been a remiss pastor as I have ignored the lost sheep. I just wanted to post here to make myself available to those now suffering because of this senseless tragedy, or those who are suffering due to their own pain. I encourage you to get in touch with me, before it is too late, and the eternal love and forgiveness of the Father is no longer available to you...

(Evan stands up from the table and paces into the living room. He stops at Olivia's writing desk, where the jewelry box is standing. His eyes eventually fall on the jewelry box and he fingers the lock.)

BETH: Evan?

(Beth walks over to him and finds him intently touching the locked jewelry box. She can't help herself. She hugs him from behind.)

BETH: Oh, Evan, I can't imagine what it's like for you. I can't imagine how you feel or how much it must hurt. I just — I just wish I could take it away for you. I wish I knew how to help you heal.

EVAN: (Straightening up.) Beth?

BETH: (Realizes what she is doing and is suddenly embarrassed and shy. She releases him and steps back.) I'm sorry. Oh Gosh. I'm really sorry. I — (Laughs awkwardly.) — I always was a big hugger, wasn't I? I should, um — Well, I'll just go clean up dinner.

(She waits to see if he has a response but he doesn't, so she slowly backs away and returns to the dining table. Evan watches her a moment before he goes over to help.)

EVAN: (After a pause.) She doesn't really care about people, you know. You didn't really care. If she cared, she wouldn't have... she wouldn't have done this.

BETH: I'm sure she was in so much pain. I'm sure this isn't what she really wanted.

EVAN: She didn't leave a note. She didn't let anyone know. She didn't even try.

BETH: Remember how happy she was? When you got engaged? She was radiant. 

EVAN: She didn't even try. 

BETH: She must have been in so much pain, feeling like she had to hide it all the time. If only I had realized or talked to her more. I knew she was tired but she was also so busy.

EVAN: Don't you dare do that, Beth. Don't you take her responsibilities and put it on yourself. She should be the one who's sorry. She should be the one to blame. She should — 

(His voice breaks, and so does Beth's heart. Evan catches himself and gazes off at the far wall for a moment, where a flash of the digital world dances across the stage.)

EVAN: Was I good to her?

BETH: What?

EVAN: Was I good to her? 

BETH: Evan, you were wonderful. 

EVAN: Why did she go away? 

BETH: I think that the last thing she wanted was to leave you. 

EVAN: I don't even know ...  How could she do this? What kind of person could do this?

BETH: I brought some other things for you, too, Evan. (Goes back to her purse and pulls out a stack of handouts, like she has been collecting them for days.) Look. Look at these. I know you feel alone, but there are support groups all over the city for "survivors of suicide." That's what the term is. I've been researching this. Look. There's a meditation group, talk therapy, Letting Go by Letting Live, and a Peaceful Healing watercolor class. I would sign up for that! That looks really fun.

EVAN: Sometimes I think it's better that she's dead. Because if she came back to life, I'd kill her myself.

BETH: You don't mean that.

EVAN: But I do. (Turns to look at her.) There's something inside of me now. This darkness. Fury. She put that inside of me.

BETH: (Holds out a pamphlet to him.) I think it would be really helpful if you checked out one of these groups. 

EVAN: Beth. You're a sweetheart, did you know that? And a lifesaver.

BETH: Well, I'll be here. If you ever need any life-saving. Except for, well, (Realizes what she has inadvertently referred to) except for any actual life-saving, because I'd probably just toss you my inhaler because well, that's what saves my life, you know? (Makes a face at herself.) I'm just ... going to head out, I guess.

EVAN: Leaving so soon.

BETH: I think I've intruded long enough.

EVAN: You're definitely not intruding.

BETH: I can come by in the morning, if you like. Before work or something.

EVAN: And any intrusion is more than welcome right now.

BETH: And 

EVAN: Please don't go. (Beat.) I'm sorry. The nights are hard. It's like she haunts me.

BETH: I can stay. If you want me to.

EVAN: I don't want to inconvenience you...

BETH: I'll stay. 
