Notes from Workshop

About an absent person. 

Story summary: Nerdy shut-in computer guy who is in love with an upstairs neighbor. She has given him a cache of her journals and letters. She kills herself. Deals with the grief of the people around her. And the next door neighbor who wants to bone the fiancee. Opera singer may be digitally manifesting herself at the end. 

Gets a sense of Logan's digital life, but it could be clarified in the scene where Logan is conferencing with everyone. Confusing scene. Seems like he could have congregated all the people. But some people do get the sense that he IS all of those people. Is it enough clarified later on? 

Can we know why she killed herself? Is the play about why she killed herself? Or is it about Logan's crush on her? If she killed herself over Evan's not seeing her, why didn't she just break up with him?

Some indication that she killed herself because of Logan's manipulation. 

Logan and Evan: Names too familiar?

Needs a better idea of how he feels about her suicide. He goes through so many different emotions: nervousness, anger, sad, sweet. Doesn't he deserve all of those emotions though? 

How far after the suicide do you want to make it? Super messy. 

Carson McCullers: Talks a lot about how often it is to be loved unconditionally. Also adored by fans. Enduring oppressive love. Not a model of sanity -- Kirn. 

Repeated flashback at Port Townsend: Needed more clues that she actually did commit suicide. Perhaps some kind of staging transition? Some more cue about it being a flashback. But perhaps starting with "Took you long enough to get here" makes it seem like he might be dead too. 

Still too many dimensions? How to eliminate or condense them? A strength, but a little overplayed that there are so many different alternate realities. People can be other than they seem and time and space can be distorted. Start losing the rules. Maybe take out the jewelry box changes, then. 

The coup of the piece: That we get to physicalize an abstract nether world of information. Merely doing that would be enough of a reality-bending prospect. 

The digital world could be that compromise between a projection of the digital world and the spiritual world. 

Her presence coming from a digital world is a strength, but the comments from the Internet went on too long? How to maintain interest in that. 

Eager/Excited to see Olivia's letters coming into the digital world, because her voice can still be heard. So bring that back into the second act. She can still exist then in the digital world. 

What if Logan posts Olivia's writings onto the memorial site. If the memorial site is where Olivia's letter comes back into. 


What about the device of the counselor? What if it was just a friend, instead? Made it seem like it was a different world from ours. Could work if she was a video chat girl. So is she being too dramatized? Maybe it would make more sense if she was just a normal callgirl, and Logan was foisting his life/problems on her. A lot of satire in it currently, but satire may not seem to have its place in the story. Seems kind of dystopian, to have her there. But perhaps it also has a dystopian message in the disconnect of people separated by technology. Easily could be psychodrama. It seems like the play goes to great lengths to separate people and to continue their misunderstandings. That allowed Kirn to feel okay not knowing who Olivia was. So in that sense, the dystopian satire is very important to this piece. 

The death of the prima donna. Doesn't seem to go far enough. 

It seems like everybody's life is better that she killed herself. It seems like Evan is actually pretty happy because of it. It seems kind of great that she killed herself. The reason that it's great is highlighted, but the reason that it's bad is not. 

Beth seems too nice; nothing about her that seems surprisingly. What if she's the one who gave her the gun and the jewelry box. 

Also, why does she have a gun? 

Question of the five thousand dollars. What does Logan expect Evan to do with that? 

Logan: Is he an evil genius. He's not Lex Luther, but there's something insidious about it. He seems better after she dies though. Some people think he was manipulating the whole thing, so that he's excited when she actually does kill herself. 

Confused by the time scene. People seem to have done a lot of processing in a short amount of time. (This might even be more true in Second Act)

Beth seemed too nice and got on some people's nerves. At the same time, she also seemed like an opportunistic spider woman type woman. 

We never even see Logan's grief. We just see him go straight to addly energizing conniving. So it seems like a highly projected subjective reality comes off of him. A product of his solitary imagining.

Olivia seemed unreal. Aside from the fact that she was a good singer, not much is known about her. 

Current ending: Leaves it at a weirdly happy place for those two, so it made it seem like that wasn't going to stick. Also the email sent from Evan to Timothy. Loaded email. 

Is Beth like a spiderwoman? She seems opportunistic. Isn't it common that when someone becomes a widower, all these women come over. She's had a thing for a him for a long time. Someone saw it as Beth coming over to nurture him, but others vetoed it as it's obvious she's had a thing for him for a long time. (I guess that was in the stage directions though.)

How easily Beth and Evan fall together is the darkest thing of the play. Signifies people being interchangeable, affection being interchangeable. Suicide being a good thing.

Suicide being pre-text for what happens. Not a mystery to be solved. Almost wished that I knew less about the suicide. 

You don't really care about the girl that's disappeared. Playing it up by not dealing with her as a person. She's a figure. Leaves it shocking that she's never fully dealt with. She could just be whatever she is to everyone else. She is the repercussions, rather than something. She is just the figment of everyone else's thoughts. 

Also, start with suicide? Have the rest of the play be the fallout? There's a lot of stuff before that. But it's also a good soft opening to have Logan talking on stage. 

People seemed a lot more interesting in Logan's grief and reaction to the death rather than Evan's. I found that interesting. 

Not really Logan coping, but just finding something to do with himself. It seems ego-boosting for him to make the memorial site. 

Not just a story, but a spectacle. 

Sometimes overwritten at point. Letting the director and actors taking over more. Especially with the digital stuff. A lot of things that can happen on stage to embody that stuff. Especially when Evan is saying out loud his reaction to the web site being taken over. Letting some of the verbal stuff just happen in his head. 

Surprised that he stayed at the apartment after she committed suicide. A scene where he is moving back to the place? Scene 3/4? 

Also weird that Beth is just sleeping in Evan/Olivia's bed. Maybe they are sleeping on the futon.


Suspicions of the Second Part:
Logan is going to get weirder and weirder.
Something sour happens between Evan and Beth. 
Beth and Evan were going to be so happy, having a baby and putting it on Facebook. They live in the suburbs and love it. And that is so dark and awful. 
Logan also likes Beth though, so he's going to insinuate him into her life. 
Logan like a spider in the middle of the web who has to be darkly triumphant or to be defeated. He has to be darkly manipulating other people's realities. Also kind of narcissistic, who is going to try to move in on this Beth and Evan deal. Someone hacking other people's lives for his ego and sense of power. He was obviously in love/obsessed. He might be trying to make her larger than she was. 

We go into more depth with Logan and we get more insight through his confessions. Evan remains kind of opaque. Identifying with the character is part of their vulnerability. We immediately bond with Logan because of his vulnerability and because we know more about him. 

Both Evan and Beth seem a little cryptic. It suprises me that Beth has a crisis of conscience. 

Interesting and stageable play that needs to be streamlined in some way. Not quite clear by what throughline. Almost as if you have to choose and make other lines subsidiary to the main line. 

Kirn: Seemed to have a strong point of view, too. When we broke out of Logan's world, Kirn still imagined him watching and being aware. He seemed like the playwright within the play. He was manipulating so many factors. Thes tory of his increasing socialization and Evan's isolation didn't strike me as the theme or the problem that needs to be worked out. I saw it more as the effect of suicide on a strange group of people, and on a building. 

 



