Scene 0:
Audience walks past various images of Olivia's online presence, such as notes to her, pictures of her, Facebook updates, Instagram photos, magazine reviews, etc. They become complicit in the act of building her identity and deciding who she is. 

Scene 1:
We open with Logan in his room, talking to Candie, who he has hired as a life advisor/psychotherapist/online guru. He shows Candie some pictures of Olivia and shares about her and how they met in the elevator and how she has recently come to him and asked him to help her create a safe place online to keep her things. Candie tries to pull out more information from him about who he is. After their expensive session, Olivia begins to sing upstairs, and Logan listens to her through the vents, which feels creepy and makes him sad and makes it feel like she belongs to him.

Scene 2:
Upstairs, Evan and Olivia get ready for bed. Olivia is putting away her jewelry and looking through some things inside her jewelry box when Evan walks in. She shuts the box and locks it. Evan tries to cheer her up and remind her of the big changes that will happen in their life after the wedding and after the performance that he is helping to organize for her. They have a lot of big things coming up. He reminds her of some marketing stuff she needs to do. She wants to consider the possibility of slowing down. She almost opens up to him about the fact that she keeps thinking about suicide, but instead, she puts on the happy, ditzy role that she is so good at. Midnight comes, she tries to write him a letter, but she can't, so she ends it at "Dear Evan." Then she shoots herself. 

Scene 3:
A strange memory/fantasy/Internet space on the beach at Port Townsend. Perhaps in the background there are frozen stills of shadows that change like clicking through photographs. At some points the shadows may begin to move. The shadows/background represent the stage of the Internet, while the figure of Olivia is more demonstrative of Evan's mental state. Because Evan is only beginning to enter this Internet-driven place with her, they are only together in a small pool of light, and perhaps the stage set background is still Evan's apartment. They talk in a way that shows that they have been here before, in real life, so that this space is part-memory. They begin the conversation as it has occurred in the past, but the future catches up with them. Evan tries to put the future off, but Olivia, as well, as the rest of the Internet space, remind him of the present, and the continued pace of life. Olivia hands him a note she has unburied from the sand. "Dear Evan -- what?" 

There is a knock at the door. The lights snap back on over Evan's apartment, and Olivia plus the shadows disappear. We find Evan seated in front of his computer. The knock occurs again. Evan opens the door for Beth, who has brought in some contact from the outside world, perhaps a bouquet of flowers from a creepy fan, delivered to the wrong door? Or something else that is fan-based and a little bit creepy. She also alerts Evan to the Internet memorial site that some fans and classmates and students of Olivia has made for her. 

Beth shares some of her favorite memories of Olivia and of the three of them together, as she believes that will help Evan to feel better. She also lets slip about Olivia's interest or relationship with Logan so that Evan has that thread to follow. Audience gets a sense of Beth's interest in Evan, or that she cares about him more than a typical friend. (Perhaps Logan is even the one who designed this web site, or who is able to hijack it in some way, or who begins leaving notes for her.)

After Beth leaves, Evan spends some more time looking through the web site. Olivia gets a note from Logan (whom she knows as Timothy), and he addresses her using a screenname that Evan does not know of. The note is a little bit intimate, which intrigues his interest. He begins searching for Olivia's account using the username that has popped up on the memorial page. 

Here, he finds various correspondences that seem very out-of-character for her. It leads to various images of her that are not particularly savory, and to a part of her character that she has kept hidden from him. As he reads, the voices and susurrations of the shadow world begin to rise again, until they become entirely overwhelming, and Evan has to dig deep back into his own memory to find Olivia on the beach again. 


Scene 4:
Evan and Olivia are back on the beach again. There is a hint of danger and wrong-ness overlaid onto the idealistic music and mood. 

Evan and Olivia have another memory-conversation that reveals new aspects of their relationship — namely, Evan's interest in her career. He wants her to have a very particular kind of image. He's not super controlling about it, but he sees her more as the pristine, Madonna type of woman — the white rose, versus the red rose. He wants her to be the kind of woman who will marry him and have children with him, and he wants this image of her to be present in her work as well.

Because of the images he has just seen on the Internet, however, his Olivia-fantasy is refusing to conform to his expectations and desires. She challenges and provokes him instead, trying to question why he's doing this and what he really wants. 

The scene/conversation ends on a little bit of a rockier ground, where the relationship is less than ideal, and we begin to question the two of them a little bit. It should perhaps also drive Evan to question who Olivia is, and who this Logan/Timothy character is. They end this scene with a fight. Evan either comes back to his reality and writes to Logan/Timothy as Olivia to figure out more about their relationship, or he does this earlier. 

***This scene may utilize more abstractism, either through music, dance, or staging. 


Scene 5:
Logan is in the middle of a tea party with his digi-friends, talking to them and keeping tabs on their lives. Perhaps Timothy is in this crowd as well. The scene has very festive music and adornment, but a very lonely heart. 

At some point in the conversation, Beth comes by knocking. She is trying to collect donations from the neighbors to help support Evan with funeral costs and rent fees. Logan answers the door very awkwardly and we see the way he interacts with people. They talk a bit about Olivia and Logan perhaps lets slip some intimate details about what he knows about her, that perhaps he shouldn't. Beth is intrigued, but not necessarily suspicious. 

When she leaves, Logan is lonely. He tries to re-start the tea party, but the spark of it is gone. He returns to the computer instead, encrypting things for Olivia. Instead, he realizes he has gotten mail from her, like she's alive. He writes back to her. Perhaps he tries to reassure her that he's kept her things safe.



Scene 6:
Evan and Beth are having dinner. Evan is feeling more upset because of the recent fight he has had with fantasy-Olivia. Beth presents him with the money and cards from the tenants of the apartment, and Evan is struck by how much Beth cares about him. He is touched, but perhaps also unsure what to do about it. He realizes he can take advantage of her, but also tries to remember that he should not, and perhaps that he should be even more careful around her. 

Beth notices how off Evan is and asks him about it. Evan shares about how he thinks that Olivia is mad at him, and also about his own anger. They talk about a memory of Olivia that Beth has mentioned before. But Evan questions who she even was. There are various signs of Evan's fantasy world bleeding into his reality. 

Evan at some point directs attention back to the jewelry box, and onto the difficulty of knowing. He talks about the letter that only reads "Dear Evan," leaving him with a blank page of mystery. At some point he breaks down and loses his cool. Beth is there to comfort him.

Beth is about to leave, but Evan asks her to stay, because he doesn't want to spend another night alone. They spend the night together, in bed. They hold each other but they do not kiss or do anything else. Yet it is deeply intimate. 

(***Perhaps squeeze a Logan/Candie scene in during the middle of the night here?)

As Beth and Evan are sleeping, Olivia's computer lights up and there is the sound of more messages coming in. This wakes Evan up. The music of the fantasy world seeps back in. Evan walks over to the computer and finds Olivia standing off in the corner of the room, (or perhaps huddling in the corner?). He goes over to her and raises his face, but she cannot respond to him and shatters at his touch. She floats away from his grasp in the form of dried rose petals and half-burnt scraps of paper.

End of Act I




Act II

Scene 1 
We begin in the same digi-space that Evan ended on, except now the light has grown darker, and the place a little more malevolent. Shadows dance and sing past and around him as his memory of her melts into the multifaceted versions of her in the digital Internet world. The shadows are all her, and she is none of them. He finds the sandcastle/grave that she has made. He begins to dig inside it, maybe with a shovel. He unearths pieces of jewelry, scraps of letters, a wig and a mannequin's head, and finally unearths the locked jewelry box which is the thing that he was looking for, without knowing what he was looking for. However, he has no key with which to open it. However, he is able to break the lock, but there is nothing inside. Her shadows grow larger and faster and they fold in over him. He snaps the box shut and the light snaps back to normal, and we move on to the next scene. Evan is able to put Olivia at rest for a while. He goes back and sits down on the bed next to Beth, who is slowly waking up.  

Following that is the morning after scene, where Beth is reading too much into the night they spent together and Evan is not sure what's going on anymore, but is willing to play along with Beth. After Beth leaves, he sits back down on the bed that he shared with Olivia. He plays with the locked jewelry box and finally puts it away, like, back-of-the-closet away. I like the idea of all of them living in studio/loft apartments.


Scene 2
Logan and Candie Scene. 

Logan contends with the fact that he has a new superpower of keeping people alive. This is what he's always wanted. It's like before, he could only play with paperdolls, hoping for a Pinocchio, but now the Blue Fairy has arrived. 

Candie is a little bit bored, but perhaps Logan's excitement gives her more insights into this Olivia person. She has more grounding on what's going on than he does. Perhaps she speaks for Olivia here in that everyone should just leave her alone. 

Logan is too excited to listen to her. He wants to follow his Frankenstein-ian power. He wants to break into the collection of things she has given him and recreate her, to break her trust and read the things that she tried to hide away. 

Logan can share with Candie more of the things that Olivia/Evan has been writing to him, and he can signal to the audience how much time has passed by. Perhaps he has not responded back to Olivia, because he is at work on his new project. He is about to do something big. 

Throughout this scene, there may be sounds of movement from upstairs (Evan and Olivia's apartment), which seem fairly normal and uneventful. 


Scene 3

Evan has ostensibly arrived at a really good place. He is ready to go back to work and perhaps he is beginning to use Beth as a replacement, though Olivia lingers underneath all of this in the smallest ways. Her blood stain remains on the floor, a thing that both Evan and Beth must find ways to step around and ignore.

The two of them are sometimes spending the nights together, though not always. It is usually up to Beth whether she decides to stay or to return home. They have not really talked about what this is or where it is going, perhaps Beth tries to start a conversation about it, but Evan evades it and also just gives in more, by kissing her (perhaps on the forehead) for the first time, because he thinks that that is all she wants, which leaves Beth confused and lonely. Evan heads off to bed, in his normal way, but Beth says she wants to stay up a little longer.  

Evan's happiness and unwillingness to talk about Olivia and things actually makes Beth wary and uncomfortable. She wishes Olivia were around so that she could ask her more questions. She has her own grieving to do, and suddenly Evan is no longer taking part in this process with her, so she feels almost abandoned, and yet it is confusing as well, because this is what she has always wanted — to be with Evan. She tries to explain her thoughts to a physical portrait of Olivia, and of course she is met with silence, which leads her to question why Olivia did what she did.  

As she fingers some of the flowers that Olivia's fans have sent, she is reminded that she does have a space for her grieving, and she gets on Evan's computer to visit the memorial site. When she does so, she finds the strange notes and pictures that are on the computer, and some of the messages that have been exchanged. She begins to feel creeped out, as if Olivia is in the room with her. When she looks over at Evan in the bedroom, he is sleeping soundly, yet she feels like Olivia's ghost is hanging over him, like her presence is breathing into the space and trying to claw back into existence. 



Scene 4

Beth goes downstairs to see Logan because she knows that he is the one who built the website and he has enough skills to monitor the space and to get rid of any shady or unsavory characters. She's got a mission. 

Logan is surprised to see her and is stripped down to a towel, but Beth is undeterred and continues with her mission, trying to enlist his help in cleaning up some of the messages on Olivia's message board. Logan tries to figure out how to host a real live person. 

They talk and Beth realizes that Logan is in fact Timothy, who has been exchanging the strange emails with Evan. This disturbs her, yet she does not shy away from him. It makes him more intriguing somehow, especially since he has this connection with these two people that she cares deeply about. 

She tries to tell Logan that Olivia would not want any of this, that Olivia just wanted to die and to be left alone. That he's hurting her by digging through her things. 

Candie jumps in and agrees with Beth, catching Beth unaware.They were kind of in the middle of something. Beth bows out somewhat gracefully, leaving Candie and Logan to their something. 

Logan and Candie finish their symbio-psycho-sexual-talk therapy. Perhaps Logan can have a little digressive monologue or masturbation here. 



Scene 5

Beth brings her new information over to Evan when they meet to eat dinner. (The Act 2 scenes so far have shifted to Beth's perspective. At what point do we return to Evan's?).

Perhaps we begin where Beth has already shared her news, and is checking in for Evan's reaction. Evan is distracted, however, as he is having a harder time repressing his need for Olivia. Her wedding dress arrived in the mail today. It has become harder for him to pretend. It takes Beth a while to catch on. Evan watches her talk and hears her voice, but there is a layer of disconnect for him. He wonders who she is and what she's doing there. He has his feet dipped in two different planes now — one that is the reality slowly growing hazy, and one that is filled with Olivia's whispers and shadows. 

Beth senses that something is off, and she offers to spend the night, even though that was not her original intention. Evan declines her offer. He would rather be alone tonight. 

After Beth leaves, Evan lays the wedding dress out over the bed.  Olivia's whispers and songs grow louder and clearer. Only now does he begin to make sense of what Beth has told him, and of the connection between Timothy and Logan — the guy who lives downstairs. The scene ends on a sinister note, where Evan gets some idea that he must do something about Logan, or that Olivia desires this, as if Logan is to blame for their separation and her darkness (depression/identity problems).

Perhaps his fantasy of Olivia is able to speak the suspicions that he has himself. Olivia suggests that Logan is keeping her locked up, and that Logan is to blame for the suicide. Evan begins having dark plans of hunting down Logan.


Scene 6

Beth is worried about Evan, as he hasn't really wanted to hang out with her these past few days. There isn't really anyone else for her turn to, so she goes down and visits Logan again. He is the only one who is also really a part of all of this. Logan invites her in and remembers where she likes to sit and what she likes to drink. Beth finds it surprisingly easy to talk to him, and he is attentive to her and kind/helpful to her in a way that Evan is not. Upstairs, they can hear Evan moving around. Beth wonders what/how he is doing. 

Does Logan begin to make accusations of Evan, though in actuality, the two of them have never met? Does Logan make Olivia's confession for her, explaining how she never felt like she was really seen by Evan? In the way that she wanted to be seen, which could be left open for interpretation in the way that certain people on the Internet saw her. All of what Logan says is "responded to" in a way by increasing cacophony and unrest from upstairs. Finally, Logan makes the ultimate accusation, that Evan is the reason Olivia is dead. Upstairs, there is silence. On the stage, from Beth, there is silence. 

Finally, Beth denies this, and tries to explain how beautiful Evan and Olivia's relationship was. Though she can't really, since she never believed in it herself, though that is because of her own reasons. 

As they are in this flurry of trying to find common ground again — Logan backtracking and Beth accomodating/reasoning — there is a sudden knock on the door, and Evan bursts in. 

Evan makes his own accusations of Logan. Beth tries to calm him down and reason with him. Logan tries to meditate and cleanse his spirit and space of Evan. He eventually matches Evan's accusations and tell him more of what he does not know about Olivia, and does not want to know. Logan claims that Olivia gave him all her private letters, and the letters that she couldn't let Evan find after her death. Evan doesn't believe it. Logan proves it by bringing out a box (larger than the jewelry box) full of the things Olivia gave to him to post in a safe space online. She obviously cared about her own thoughts and recollections and scribblings. Logan taunts Evan with one envelope in particular. It is labeled "death wish." Evan thinks it is about him, but when he finally opens it (cue: Olivia music), it is simply a recording of some of her own thoughts, and there is nothing about him at all. He seems to understand that Olivia did not belong to him or anyone else, but only to herself, and she deserves her privacy and she should be left alone.



Scene 7

Evan spools back to Port Townsend and sits there alone, with the small, small part of her he clings to, when really, she is as deep as the ocean itself. But he is too afraid to step into it. 

Then, however, Olivia appears next to him, in full wedding regalia. She leads Evan forward, into the ocean.







What is the story about:
 - Wanting your loved ones to be a certain way and to fit into a certain idea you have of people
 - When we're inundated by so many images and archetypes from media and Internet, it's so easy to put people into paper-cutouts that fit the archetype...Putting people into separate molds of what you want, instead of what you can be. Selfish.
 - What he's searching to find is evidence that she was what he wanted to be. Feels more like he wants confirmation that he did know her. 
 - How much knowledge do we have of each other and what is intimacy in today's technological world?
















