SCENE 1

(Logan is standing in the rain, drenched, or simply standing in his apartment, drenched. He is very afraid. Perhaps Beth is with him, sitting by the computer, trying to stop the bad thing from happening, and trying to maintain an appropriate amount of Olivia's presence on the Internet. And the bad thing is Evan, pounding on the door.)

EVAN: Let me in! I know you're in there! Let me in! You never leave!

LOGAN: (Weeping and clinging Beth.) Don't let him come in. Don't let him touch me.

BETH: He won't hurt you. No one will hurt you. Look, you're okay. You're fine.

LOGAN: Rain outside, rain inside. Leaks on my ceiling and her blood's dripping down. I tried to collect it in my bucket. Can't we ever escape from here?!

BETH: I don't know what you're talking about. You're not making any sense.

LOGAN: I just wanted to help. I wanted to make things better. (Angry voice.) You can't do shit to make it better!

EVAN: Open up the door, you son of a bitch! I know what you did! I know all about you!

LOGAN: (Approaches nervous breakdown.) He's here. Don't you hear him?

BETH: You CAN make it better. You can change all of it. You have that gift! (She opens the laptop and tries to direct it to Olivia's profile.)

LOGAN: (Snatches the computer away.) Get away from that. That's not yours.

EVAN: You can't have her, you piece of shit! She's not yours!

LOGAN: (Takes his computer safely in hand, and pauses in front of his shrine to Olivia. There are many photos and articles of her. Perhaps Olivia can be on stage as well, wrapped behind curtains, still as a statue, a dead thing.) We made you so beautiful. But now you're not even real. (Squeezes his eyes shut.) I want to smell you like the way you smelled on the elevator. 

BETH: (Looks at him in surprise.) You were the guy in the elevator?

LOGAN: Every guy is the guy on the elevator. 

EVAN: LET ME IN!

LOGAN: (Closes his eyes in dread.) We're plunging down the first floor now. Time to get out. And go where? Where do we go?

BETH: (Stands up and holds his hand.) Back to the beginning.

LOGAN: But this is the end.

(Evan breaks the door down and barges inside. He holds a gun in his hand and looks at the two of them. He is out of breath and menacing and perhaps injured. Why not? There is some recognition of him from the Olivia figure?)

BETH: Don't do it, Evan. Please don't do it.

EVAN: (Sneers.) I don't have a choice. (Holds up the gun and aims it at Logan.) You made this, didn't you? You pictured this in your twisted little mind. Exactly like this. 

LOGAN: (Whimpers and crouches down.)  

(Olivia begins to hum or sing in a tone that corresponds with Logan's whimpering.)

EVAN: (Sadly.) I was standing, just like this. The gun in my hand. Bullet poised to take everything away. Just like this.

BETH: It doesn't have to be this way. No one decided it would happen like this.

EVAN: All of it a gone. Just one little twitch of a muscle. A spasm. And then, all of it, gone. 

BETH: Evan. Look at me.

EVAN: So, you think you can build out of entropy? 

LOGAN: I don't want to die. I don't want to die.

EVAN: You know there's no death. There's only eternity. Show us your eternity.

BETH: Don't do it, Evan. Don't do it. Don't do it. Don't do it. 

(Olivia's singing becomes more shrill and frantic.)

(The gun goes off and the stage goes dark. The sound of the gun echoes and then distorts, soon turning into a bouncy, sine graph music, alternately looping us in and shrinking away from us. Behind it, Olivia's voice is breaking glass. Lights go out and we transition to the next scene, with the sounds fading into the background.)



SCENE 2

(On the beach at Port Townsend. Bright lights. There is a warm, amniotic rhythm of the waves. Distorted bird calls of reality pecking at the edges of this world. We are somewhere between fantasy and memory.)

OLIVIA: So this is what your heaven is like?

EVAN: I guess so. Heaven is wherever you're happiest, right? Where you get to be with the people you love. Forever. (Beat.) Aren't you glad we drove out here now? 

OLIVIA: Scatter your ashes in Port Townsend. Check. 

EVAN: Well, I don't plan on staying in heaven anytime soon. 

OLIVIA: Everyone thinks they get their own customized heaven, with the drink of their choice and their childhood dog nearby. Do you know what heaven's really like? Heaven is one long, never-ending Catholic mass, where everyone's given up their bodies so they float around like little clouds of soulfulness, and worship the Lord for-ever.

EVAN: That's pretty religious of you.

OLIVIA: Heaven is a religious place, Evan. 

EVAN: Didn't know you had God-fearing side. 

OLIVIA: I used to sing for a Catholic choir. 

EVAN: Really?

OLIVIA: They were the best troupe in town. The song selection was limited and I had to memorize a lot of catechism to convince them I was Catholic, but it was totally worth it. There was something very right about it, our voices bouncing around the rafters and all that stained glass. It made me feel ... holy.

EVAN: So. Does this mean you want to get married in a church someday? 

OLIVIA: I guess so. I guess I believe in churches. Cathedrals. 

EVAN: We should have a concert in a church. Yeah. I could book that place by the capitol. Or the one on the university.

OLIVIA: Well, I don't want to keep singing praise songs. And I have two concerts lined up already.

EVAN: Yeah, but next season. 

OLIVIA: How is that story you were working on? Are you going to submit it to the journal?

EVAN: (Happily.) I scrapped it. Put it in the bottom drawer with the whiskey and the shotgun. Maybe I'll pull it back up some day.

OLIVIA: But I want to know how the story ends. You never write an ending.

EVAN: Endings are too much of a commitment. I'd rather leave the story open.

OLIVIA: I smell a cop-out.

EVAN: Endings are too absolute. I don't want to decide how the situation plays out, or where the characters end up. I want to think that they can exist in the infinite web of possibility. That they took both roads in both woods and all the roads exist in their own dimension of a wintry night.

OLIVIA: I think you're simply refusing to end a story because you are never sure of anything.

EVAN: I'm sure of one thing. 

OLIVIA: What?

(Evan pulls out a ring box from his pocket. Choir music begins?)

EVAN: Want to marry me in a church?

(Choir music increases in volume, and then both music and lights fade. Music comes out of the computer instead. Perhaps it can go from celebratory to elegiac? And then transitions to Olivia's solo?)



Scene III

(Evan sits in front of his computer, lighted up by the screen of the monitor. The computer plays the tinny sound of Olivia's solo. He types furiously from the middle of the room. A knock sounds. Evan looks up. Lights go up, which show a state of dishevelment and abandon in Evan's apartment. He stops the music. The knock sounds again.)


























