EVANYou were once a writer. Now you’re in a much more high-powered job. It’s less fun but more comfortable. Your fiancée Olivia is an up-and-coming soprano. She’s lovely. And suddenly, she’s gone. But you can’t get over that. Now you spend most of your days looking at pictures and videos of her on the Internet, dreaming about her, touching her things. Your neighbor comes by sometimes to talk to you and help you clean. Questions for Evan
1. What first attracted you to Olivia?
2. What is your recurring nightmare? What do you think it means?
3. What memory/specific incident with Olivia would you most like 	to change?  

OLIVIAYou are a soprano headed down a good career path, and engaged to the man you have loved since you were a student. Everything should be good. But sometimes it can be overwhelming, playing all your different roles in life. You see a psychologist, but you don’t want anyone to know. You don’t want anyone to know about what you’re doing. Questions for Olivia
1. Why do you love about Evan? What would you change about him?  
2.	What do you think has made you successful? What qualities? 
3. What is your favorite memory with Evan?DETECTIVETypically, you like your job, but once in a while, the shit gets old, and it sucks to be in the middle of it, again and again. You’ve seen a lot of cases where there was a bad boyfriend, and a dead or injured girl, but this time you’re not so sure. You kind of feel for the guy, even though you’ve been hired to investigate him. 

Questions for Detective
1. What is your relationship like with your wife and your kids?
2. What's your least favorite type of person? 
3. What are your thoughts on religion? 
BETHYou live across the hall from this awesome couple. They’re both gorgeous. The woman’s a soprano, kind of a celebrity; the guy writes and works in another high-powered job and is just incredibly nice and funny and kind. Sometimes they invite you to their dinners, or you all go on walks. One night, everything changes. The woman is gone. The man is in horrible shape. You make a point of seeing him everyday, helping him clean, making sure he eats, trying to get him through this. You have always loved him.Questions for Beth
1. What is it that pulls you to Evan? 
2. What are three things you would change about the world?
3. What are three (or more) things you would change about your 	life?
CANDIEYou work as a psychotherapist, and have your own practice. Many of your patients are celebrities, or those who are little more than average. You like to target that particular demographic because it is a better market. Most of your work is marketed online, and you even offer some sessions over Skype. You believe in maintaining a good appearance and a strong brand. The Internet is great for putting forward your messages and building your image, but luckily, the Internet is also a place to find release. Not only are you Dr. Candie Silvester, pHD, but you are also Candie Silver, late-night call girl.Questions for Candie
1. What kind of underwear are you wearing?
2. What's the most despicable thing about men? What about women?
3. What did you dream about being when you were a little girl? 
4. Who are your heroes? 
LOGANYou’re an agoraphobe and you haven't left the comfort of your apartment for at least a few months. All of your business is conducted through the Internet. If you crouch by the vents in your bathroom, you can listen to the girl upstairs singing. She’s got the loveliest voice. You like to follow her newsfeed online. 

Questions for Logan
1. When did you last leave your apartment and for what? 
2. Who do you care about more than anyone in the world?
3. What scares you most about being outside? 
