Scene 1:
Something really fast and chaotic and harried? 
	What if there is a juxtaposition in the use of the 	stage with the detective in the middle at the coroner's 	office, Logan in his room or outside being horrified in the 	rain, or reliving his water trauma, and Evan loading a gun. 	And we alternate between these three settings through lighting
I like the image of hands preparing a gun. Just the hands and a gun on the table. No face. Maybe sleeves. Would they be trenchcoat sleeves, or the sleeves of a buttoned-down pedantic professional? Or would they be bare arms? 
	Narrative: Something terrible has happened -- a death. Three 	men are facing their worst fears: the death of a beautiful 	woman, the violence of his anger, to be surrounded/submerged 	in water 	(water represents: physicality, rebirth, the womb,	disconnection, 	death, silence, a childhood memory of drowning)
**Some connection to the Internet should be made in this very first scene. Speculation about her death? Her life as it was framed online? 
	Narrative: The detective makes observations about a dead, 	covered body. Evan packs a gun while imaginary-Olivia pleads 	with him to stop. (Perhaps her voice could be distorted so it 	is not even clear whether she is Olivia or Beth.)  Logan 	stands in front of a pool or by his window and soliloquizes, 	maybe to an image or bust of Olivia (a little too Hamlet).


Scene 2:
Can we jump from a chaotic and exciting opening scene to Port Townsend on the beach? 
	The lights are bright but soft, fuzzy.
There is "amniotic noise" where you can hear the cadence of the ocean, but it never threatens to swallow you.
	Birds shriek in the distance, threatening reality and 	reminding you of the dangers that lurk in your own mind. (See 	strange bird-call sounds in "The Committee" at http://	www.youtube.com/watch?v=sW1bxwDT4FA, from 41:00 onward)
Narrative: A couple enjoying their daytrip on the beach. Something horrible awaits them in the future. This is now. 


Scene 3:
Possibly need some explanation now. Clarify that the girl half of the beautiful couple on the beautiful beach is now gone. The beach is covered in garbage and oil. The man is playing with a gun. 
	Bring in the sound of her singing. Bring in the slower tempo 	of reality and grief.
Narrative: Perhaps Evan is bringing flowers to her grave, and Beth comes up to join him with deviled eggs and stroganoff. Perhaps he is sitting apart from the other mourners, and Beth eventually joins him as well. 
	**Whose perspective will it be? Evan's or Beth's? Beth seems 	to have the advantage of clear thinking, and a desire/	objective 	we can relate to better.
**What will be accomplished in this scene? The idea of putting the past behind you and moving on? Evan still struggling with the mystery of her death and the idea of her being gone while obfuscating the truth of what has happened? 


Scene 4:
Narrative: Logan too struggles with Olivia's death, on his own terms. Perhaps set up a mystery between their relationship. Was there more than what happened in the elevator? Was the elevator just the beginning? Have they been exchanging letters for a long time? 
	This scene could inhabit a very different kind of space around 	grieving. Evan must be performative, and must adhere his 	reaction to what is socially acceptable. Logan does not have 	any of these social constrictions. Perhaps he seeks it. Moreoever, he seeks another human with whom he can interact, such as he interacted with Olivia. 	
	Narrative: Perhaps after his session with Candie, Logan begins 	to post pictures of Olivia onto the Internet? 
I love the image of a flashing computer light casting the only glow in a dark room. Have you ever left your computer to charge and watched how its light is reflected on the wall? It's very rhythmic, like a heart beat. 



Scene 5:
Time to step into surreality? Which has not really existed, up to this point. 
	Narrative: Evan sees the pictures that Logan has posted. He 	views notes sent to Olivia. Though she is dead, there are 	still people speaking to her. They refuse to acknowledge her 	death in a way that defies the act of death. 
**Focus on giving Evan more depth: As a writer, Evan's schtick is revision. He doesn't just want to go back in time, he wants to re-write the story, such as when he gives the detective multiple versions of how he met Olivia. For him, the blank page is the possibility of having a different outcome, one that is within his control. At this moment, he is dealing with shock, abandonment and anger. He is engulfed in loneliness, and will grasp for any semblance of contact with her. 
	**Get rid of the funeral scene to leave open the question of	her whereabouts? Wait. Then there is the detective and body 	scene as well.
Although we don't reveal what's happened to her, I would love to have hints of it through the stage design and music--> Something out of place over the stain on the ground? A reverberation of the gunshot in certain points of the music? 
	

	
Scene of Revelation:
Everything before this should be building toward the huge and the dramatic and the overwhelming. It is overwhelming. But then the sound of the gun is so quiet, so irrelevant. Yet it ends the turmoil of tension and noise. 
	Narrative: We see that girl is dead because she chose to kill 	herself, and not because of any dark secret or horrible 	dilemma. She died for no reason. "She died for nothing."



Last Scene:
This is a scene in the past, but also a scene where Olivia is truly the main character. This is her scene. This is her memory. 
	The music is happy and upbeat. The lights are bright and 	plentiful. For her, they are like little clusters of migraine 	lights. Aura. 
Narrative: The beautiful couple is celebrating their engagement with a lavish party, or with close friends at a bar. Everyone is happy. The girl sees the happiness through a haze, like she is separated from it by layers and layers of gauze and spider-webbing. Even the neighbor who she knows has a crush on her fiance is so happy. People are trying to talk to her but she can't make sense of what they are saying. The words move through her not in a string but like beads falling off the thread. She needs to go away and hide. She wants to crawl underneath the tablecloth. She walks away from the party. Her lover calls out to her, but she keeps walking. 